Fault location on high voltage transmission line by applying support vector regression with fault signal amplitudes
 This paper proposes a novel high voltage transmission line fault location scheme based on application of support vector regression (SVR). The proposed scheme just uses the amplitudes of the fault voltage waveforms, measured at a single end of the line. Various types of faults at different locations with different fault impedances and a variety of fault inception angles are studied on a 400 kV–300 km high-voltage transmission line power system. The fault voltages are obtained from 1/8 cycle post-fault signals after the noise has been eliminated using a low-pass filter. The amplitudes of the fault voltage signals are used as features to train the SVR. After training, the SVR is used in the exact location of the fault on the transmission line. When compared with other fault location schemes, the proposed scheme requires less information and a smaller time data window to estimate the fault locations. However, the proposed scheme provides more accurate estimations, irrespective of the fault types, fault inception angles and fault impedances.
Transmission line fault location using traveling wave frequencies and extreme learning machine
 In this research, a new approach was proposed for determining the fault location in transmission lines. Traveling wave frequencies and an extreme learning machine (ELM) were used to determine fault location. Transient signals in the time domain were transformed to the frequency domain using the fast Fourier transform (FFT) and the traveling wave frequencies were detected from the transient frequency spectrum. In order to detect the location of fault, traveling wave frequency was used initially to predict the fault location. The prediction of this fault location was tested for many different fault conditions and was found to be adversely affected by only the source inductance value. This is due to the negative effect of source inductance on wave velocity. Regression feature of ELM was used in order to improve the prediction of fault location and to minimize the negative effect of source inductance. For ELM regression training, values of the fault distance estimated from the traveling-wave frequencies and the source inductance values were used as ELM input data, and the actual distance values were used as ELM output data. After ELM regression training, ELM predicted a new fault location using the input data. The Alternative Transients Program (ATP/EMTP) was used to model J. Marti frequency dependent line model, and the MATLAB program was used to perform fault-detection algorithms. Simulation results show that the proposed method is very successful against many variables such as different fault resistances, source inductances, transmission line characteristics, transmission line lengths.
New fault location scheme for four-circuit untransposed transmission lines
 This paper introduces a new fault location scheme for two-terminal four-circuit untransposed transmission line using synchronized measurements. The current phasors at both line terminals and the voltage phasor at only one terminal are needed to formulate the fault location equation. The proposed scheme is developed based on theory of transmission lines and expansion of Taylor series for the distributed line model parameters. The mutual coupling between all phases and the untransposition of the line are considered to obtain precise results. The faulty phases are determined using Kirchhoff’s current law (KCL) and all fault types including normal shunt and inter-circuit faults can be located. DIgSILENT Power Factory software is used to simulate the power system and the fault location calculations are carried out using MATLAB. The proposed scheme is investigated under different fault locations, fault inception angles, fault types, and fault resistances. The influence of soil resistivity variation, measurement and synchrophasors errors, errors in line parameters, various line lengths, non-linear time-varying arc resistance, and complex fault impedance is also investigated. The simulation results confirm the validity of the fault location scheme for all test cases.
Gabor transform-based fault location method for multi-terminal transmission lines
 Fault location in multi-terminal transmission lines is faced with different challenges such as high computation burden imposed by signal processing tools and different transmission line topologies. In this paper, a new method based on the Gabor transform (GT) for fault section determination and fault location calculation in multi-terminal lines is presented. The paper describes some benefits of the GT for analyzing modal components of synchronized current (or voltage) signals at all terminals. Then, to determine fault section and fault location, the arrival times of the first peak waves generated by the fault is utilized. One of the features of the GT is that it does not need to choose any tuning parameters. Moreover, it has robust performance under noisy conditions. The GT exerts low computation burden and it is based on the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), making it suitable for practical implementation. In this paper, the proposed method is also compared with a number of different fault location algorithms. The obtained numerical results under various fault conditions confirm the efficacy of the proposed method. The results also show that the proposed fault locator is independent of the power system configuration.
Transmission line fault detection and location using Wide Area Measurements
 Knowledge of both voltage and current data is conventionally entailed for locating fault on transmission network. However, owing to the non-linearity of the system, the process becomes iterative and cumbersome. In order to address this issue, a new technique for fault location on transmission lines using only voltage measurements obtained from Wide Area Measurement Systems (WAMS) and the network bus admittance matrix has been reported in this paper. It is based on the fundamental law of electrical networks. It delineates a single step method to find out the faulted line and the exact location of fault. The decision is based on change in injected current at various buses following the line fault. The method has been tested on IEEE 14 bus and New England 39 bus system. Applicability of the proposed algorithm is independent of fault type, location of fault and fault resistance. This method not only proves to be accurate but also furnishes quick results with reduced computational burden. Besides, the faulted phase as well as fault type detection has been suggested in this paper using same measurements.
Unsynchronized fault-location technique for two- and three-terminal transmission lines
 In this work, a novel fault-locator technique for two- and three-terminal power transmission lines is introduced. Unsynchronized three-phase current and voltage measurements of all line ends are processed for estimating the required synchronization angle/s and the fault location via exploiting the initial conditions of each fault type. To realize this target, the computations of the required synchronization angle/s are initially accomplished independent of the fault location via considering a lumped charging current at the reference terminal which is selected arbitrarily. Consequently, the initial fault location is determined via equating the deduced equations of the positive-sequence voltage at the faulty point from two sides of the faulted segment as a function of the measured data after their correction. The previous obtained fault location is, then, utilized as an input for the next iterative computations, where the distributed line model is used to update the charging current. This process is repeated until the change rate of the obtained fault location becomes negligible. The proposed technique has been examined and assessed under different fault scenarios simulated using MATLAB. The sample results of the assessment are declared and discussed.
Accurate arcing fault location method for M-terminal transmission lines
 Arcing faults (AFs) are highly complex nonlinear phenomena which in turn cause voltages and currents of M-terminal transmission lines vary nonlinearly with time. So, the conventional fault location algorithms which use fundamental frequency of the signals, cannot locate the AFs, precisely. This paper proposes an accurate method to locate the AFs occurring on M-terminal transmission lines. The algorithm consists of two subroutines. In subroutine 1, the faulty section is determined; and in subroutine 2, the exact location of AF is calculated. The proposed method uses synchronized voltage and current measurements at all terminals and does not employ source impedances of the external networks. In addition, the proposed method takes advantage of distributed parameter line model in the time domain which accurately models the line. Since just one minimization problem is used for all AF types, classification of AF type and selection of faulty phase are not needed. An extensive series of simulations has been performed. The results, considering various AF conditions, show the high accuracy and efficiency of the offered method.
New fault location scheme for three-terminal untransposed parallel transmission lines
 This paper proposes a new fault location scheme in the phase-domain for three-terminal untransposed double-circuit transmission lines utilizing synchronized voltage and current measurements obtained by GPS technique. The proposed scheme is derived taking into consideration the distributed line model and the mutual couplings effect between the parallel lines to obtain accurate results. The proposed scheme is derived based on the transmission line theory and Taylor series expansion of the distributed line model parameters. All fault types including normal shunt faults, evolving faults, and cross-country faults can be discriminated from each other and the fault location can be obtained for all fault types. The evolving faults include earth faults occurring at the same location in two phases of one circuit or two phases of different circuits at different fault inception time. While cross-country faults include earth faults occurring at different locations in two phases of one circuit or two phases of different circuits at same or different fault inception time. The proposed scheme is tested under different fault locations, different fault resistances, different fault inception angles, and all fault types including cross-country and evolving faults. Also, the effect of different sampling rate, measurement and synchronization errors, earth resistivity variations, and transmission line parameters errors on the proposed scheme is considered. Simulations studies conducted by MATLAB software demonstrate that the maximum estimation error in fault location does not exceed 3.06%.
Fault test analysis in transmission lines throughout interfering synchrophasor signals
 The distribution of power supplies be obliged to offer reliable, superior-quality in power. To obtain good power quality the transmission line faults identification should be more precise, consistence and complete rectification is required. The faults in the transmission and distribution lines influence the power quality. The major faults in transmission lines such as line to ground fault, line-to-line fault and three-phase faults. This paper proposes a unique organized interrelated structure for fault-location and classification technique for transmission lines through an experimental set-up similar to transmission and distribution for good power quality. The proposed method utilizes synchrophasor measurements during the disturbances from the transmission lines and compares with ideal condition signals for fault location and classification. From the results, the synchrophasor measurements identify faults in the initial stage. The phasor measurement results are modelled through regression modelling for precise measurement. Various faults are modelled for the earlier detection in the transmission lines.
Transmission line fault location using hybrid wavelet-Prony method and relief algorithm
 Context: Intelligent fault locating in transmission lines consists of three main steps: feature extraction, feature selection, and utilizing a learning tool. Objective: The main objective of this paper is to propose a systematic approach for intelligent fault locating in transmission lines. Method: This paper extracts a group of candidate features by applying a combination of the Wavelet Packet Decomposition (WPD) and Improved Prony Analysis (IPA) methods on single-ended voltage measurements. To have an accurate fault location estimate, useful and efficient features are selected among the candidate features using the regression relief algorithm. In this paper, performances of three regression learning tools including the Generalized Regression Neural Network (GRNN), k-Nearest Neighbor (k-NN) and the Random Forests (RF) in the fault location problem are evaluated and compared, and the best tool is introduced. Results: Numerous training and test patterns are generated through simulation of various fault types in an untransposed transmission line based on different values of fault location, fault resistance, fault inception angle, and magnitude and direction of load current. The results of evaluation using theses patterns show the high efficiency and accuracy of the proposed approach. For various fault types in the test cases, the average values of fault location estimation errors are in the range of 0.153–0.202%. Conclusion: Besides accuracy, the proposed fault locating method is immune against current signal measurement errors and it does not face the problems and costs related to the transmitting and synchronizing data of both line ends.
Fast accurate fault location on transmission system utilizing wide-area unsynchronized measurements
 This article presents a closed-form solution for transmission line fault location without the need for GPS-synchronized sampling of wide-area measurements. Unsynchronized measurements recorded by sparse intelligent electronic devices (IEDs) across the grid are gathered and bus impedance matrix is utilized to relate the measurements to fault location by nonlinear complex functions. A linear reformulation of the problem allows for integrating unsynchronized voltage and current measurements, together with two auxiliary variables, into a linear least-squares problem. Schur-Banachiewicz inversion formula is next utilized to obtain a closed-form solution for fault location. The distributed parameter model of the line is considered and the method identifies the faulted line and locates the fault along it regardless of fault type and resistance. Furthermore, in contrast to previous methods, the proposed method on the one hand obviates the need for GPS-synchronized sampling, and on the other hand avoids iterative procedures. Extensive time-domain simulations for the WSCC 9-bus and a 22-bus subnetwork of the IEEE 118-bus test systems confirm the effectiveness of the method for different faults across the grid.
Design of a one-sided, impedance-based transmission line fault locator using line topology and source impedances
 The article discusses an algorithm for a one-sided, impedance-based (transmission) line fault locator using line topology. Standard one-sided impedance-based fault locators, included in the digital protection systems [2], [3], [4], [8] compute the distance to the fault using the symmetrical components of line impedance. Section 5 demonstrates that this method of determining the distance to the fault exhibits significant inaccuracies in the case of a non-transposed line. The designed algorithm eliminates this inaccuracy, as it computes the distance to the fault with regard to impedance of corresponding phase, or more precisely the faulty loop. Moreover, the algorithm reflects the source impedances on both sides of the line and therefore eliminates or decreases the influence of power from the opposite side to determine the distance to the fault.
Analysis of half-wavelength transmission line under critical balanced faults: Voltage response and overvoltage mitigation procedure
 This paper presents a detailed study of half-wavelength (HWL) transmission line system under critical fault conditions. This non-conventional ultra high voltage alternating current (UHVAC) transmission line has excellent properties in steady-state operation condition and economic advantage when compared to conventional UHVAC system and even high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission systems for similar power capacity. This technology has been studied for many decades and its response under condition fault is an important topic. First, the point of fault and the type of fault conditions are evaluated to confirm that balanced faults in specific regions are critical. Then the main characteristics of voltage response of HWL transmission system under balanced fault are presented and critical regions that produce severe overvoltage are identified and main transient characteristics are described. Finally, a preliminary mitigation procedure is shown and its performance is evaluated.
A double ended AC series arc fault location algorithm for a low-voltage indoor power line using impedance parameters and a neural network
 This paper presents a novel method for the distance estimation of a series arc fault in a low-voltage indoor power line. This method is based on the SIMULINK modeling of an electrical line by using its RLCG parameters. Rather than using an arc fault model, arc faults are inserted at different points across the line, using measured data. Faults using carbonized paths and opening contacts between two copper electrodes are considered. The algorithm estimates the arc fault distances by employing both the voltages and currents at two ends of the line, calculating their DFFT (Discrete Fast Fourier Transform) and then inserting these magnitudes, into Kirchhoff equations which take into account impedance parameters of the simplified approach line model. The arc fault is generated at an unknown distance. As the impedance parameters depend on the fault location, sets of supposed fault distances (varying by one-meter steps) are inserted in these equations. Thus, the extraction of currents peak values at the fundamental frequency (50 Hz) generates a signature vector. A neural network is trained using signature vectors as inputs (for faults generated at different distances). Finally, the algorithm thus developed is validated in two steps. First, the fault distances are estimated using distances not considered in the training process. Secondly, the fault distances are estimated using other series arc faults data not considered in the learning process. The results obtained in this work show that fault location can be successfully estimated both for faults generated by opening contacts and for carbonized paths. Additionally, the algorithm has successfully tested on different line lengths and considering also changes on the impedance parameters of the line.
Fault location in series-compensated transmission lines based on heuristic method
 This paper presents an algorithm for fault-location for series-compensated transmission lines based on phase components and on an heuristic method. The proposed algorithm uses voltages and currents measurements provided by intelligent electronic devices installed at both line ends to calculate the voltages at the fault point and to determine the exact fault location. The paper also presents a detailed mathematical model of the series compensation, which is capable of representing its behavior accurately, improving the algorithm's response. The authors implemented a series-compensated double-circuit transmission line using the Alternative Transients Program, in order to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm. The results indicate that it presents a high level of accuracy.
A Novel Fault Detection and Fault Location Method for VSC-HVDC Links Based on Gap Frequency Spectrum Analysis
 This paper proposes a one-end gap-based fault location method for VSC-HVDC transmission line using the fault current signal. Using the post-fault current time series, the frequency spectrum is generated for measuring the gaps between the contiguous peak frequencies. This method is able to locate the fault by analyzing the single-end fault current, which guarantees a faster response than using two-end data. The new gap-based approach is able to give accurate fault detection using any appropriate range of post-fault signal. Furthermore, the proposed method is fault resistance independent. A two-terminal VSC-HVDC system is modeled in PSCAD/EMTDC. The algorithm is verified by studying different cases of different fault resistances in various fault locations. The result shows that the proposed method gives an accurate and reliable fault location detection along DC transmission line. In addition, the proposed algorithm can be potentially used in other HVDC systems.
Support vector machine based fault classification and location of a long transmission line
 This paper investigates support vector machine based fault type and distance estimation scheme in a long transmission line. The planned technique uses post fault single cycle current waveform and pre-processing of the samples is done by wavelet packet transform. Energy and entropy are obtained from the decomposed coefficients and feature matrix is prepared. Then the redundant features from the matrix are taken out by the forward feature selection method and normalized. Test and train data are developed by taking into consideration variables of a simulation situation like fault type, resistance path, inception angle, and distance. In this paper 10 different types of short circuit fault are analyzed. The test data are examined by support vector machine whose parameters are optimized by particle swarm optimization method. The anticipated method is checked on a 400 kV, 300 km long transmission line with voltage source at both the ends. Two cases were examined with the proposed method. The first one is fault very near to both the source end (front and rear) and the second one is support vector machine with and without optimized parameter. Simulation result indicates that the anticipated method for fault classification gives high accuracy (99.21%) and least fault distance estimation error (<0.21%) for all discussed cases. In order to verify the accuracy of the proposed method, a comparison is carried out with methods published by other researchers. Separate investigation is also carried out with the transmission line placing thyristor controlled series capacitor in the middle and applying the same proposed method. It is observed from the test results of the thyristor controlled series capacitor based transmission line model that fault classification gives a high accuracy of 98.36% and absolute fault location error is >0.29%.
ICA feature extraction for the location and classification of faults in high-voltage transmission lines
 Several methods for the location and classification of faults in power transmission lines using computational intelligence and digital signal processing techniques have been described in literature. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) and wavelet transform (WT) have drawn significant attention lately, but they present some drawbacks when dealing with power systems faults where data are often contaminated by noise. This paper proposes an approach by combining independent component analysis (ICA) with travelling wave (TW) theory and support vector machine (SVM). The approach is adequate to locate and recognize faults in high-voltage (HV) transmission lines, while the acquired signals are noisy. Experiments performed for distinct types and locations of faults in a real transmission line model have shown that the proposed combined methods are able to provide excellent performance in fault location. The obtained errors are lower than 1% and accuracy is 100% for the classification of fault signals with noise. It can be stated that this method presents better performance than those regarding the main conventional techniques such as wavelets and neural networks in the presence of noise.
A single-ended fault location method for segmented HVDC transmission line
 This paper presents a single-ended traveling wave-based fault location method for segmented high voltage DC (HVDC) transmission lines; an overhead line combined with an underground cable. DC transient voltage and current signals at the sending-end of the overhead line are assumed to be available. Discrete Wavelet Transformation (DWT) is then applied to the DC voltage and current signals. The wavelet energies of voltage and current transients over 16 ms (i.e. 1-cyle in 60-Hz frequency) are calculated and then normalized. The normalized energies are used as the input to a binary Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier for faulty section identification (underground cable or overhead line). Once the faulty section is identified, the faulty-half is determined by comparing polarity of the first two current traveling waves. Bewley diagrams are finally observed for the traveling wave pattern and the wavelet coefficients squared of DC voltage are used to locate the fault. The transient voltage and current for different fault locations are simulated using the ATP software. MATLAB is used to process the simulated transients and apply the proposed method. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated for different fault locations and fault resistances. The impacts of non-linear high impedance faults (NLHIF) and cable aging are also studied.
A new fault detection and fault location method for multi-terminal high voltage direct current of offshore wind farm
 This paper proposes a novel protection scheme for multi-terminal High Voltage Direct Current (MTDC) systems incorporating offshore wind farm based on high-frequency components detected from the fault current signal. This method can accurately detect the fault on each line and classify the fault types. Using the post-fault current time series, both single-ended measurements (detection and classification) and double-end measurements (location), the frequency spectrum is generated to measure the gaps between the contiguous peak frequencies giving a robust and comprehensive scheme. Unlike the previous travelling wave based methods, which must identify the travelling wavefront and require a high sampling rate, the new gap-based approach is able to give accurate fault detection and fault location using any appropriate range of post-fault signals. Furthermore, the proposed method is fault resistance independent and thus even a very high fault impedance has no effect on the fault location detection. By immediately tripping the faults, the fault-caused disturbance to the offshore wind farm is minimized. A three-terminal voltage sourced converter HVDC (VSC-HVDC) system connection of offshore wind farm is modelled in PSCAD/EMTDC (Power Systems Computer Aided Design/Electro-Magnetic Transients including DC) software, which is used for obtaining the fault current data for the transmission line terminal. The algorithm is verified by studying a range of cases, by varying the fault resistance fault locations and also including external faults. The results show that the proposed method gives an accurate and reliable fault detection, classification and location on the test MTDC system.
A novel single-ended fault location scheme for parallel transmission lines using k-nearest neighbor algorithm
 This paper proposes k-nearest neighbour (k-NN)-based method for fault location estimation of all types of fault in parallel lines using one-terminal measurement. Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) is used for pre-processing the signals and then the standard deviation of one cycle of pre-fault and one cycle of post-fault samples are used as inputs to k-NN algorithm. The results obtained under various fault conditions demonstrate the high accuracy of the proposed scheme to estimate the fault location. The accuracy of the k-NN-based fault location scheme is not affected by alteration in fault type including inter-circuit faults, fault location, fault inception angle, fault resistance, and pre-fault load angle.
Fault location in power distribution network with presence of distributed generation resources using impedance based method and applying π line model
 The power distribution networks (PDN) are spread in different street and Alley. Furthermore, nowadays, the DG is used in PDN, especially photovoltaic (PV). Therefore, fault location in these PDNs is complex. In this paper, an improved impedance based method has been proposed for fault location in power distribution network with presence of photovoltaic distributed generation resources. According that the PV has an uncertain behavior in different conditions, the proposed method is designed to be robust against PV behavior and upstream feeder changes. In the suggested method, detail equations are derived to prove a new quadratic equation for locating fault in PDNs using recorded voltage and current at the beginning of feeder and DG terminals. According to this proved equation is depended on to just voltage and currents of source or substation terminals, consequently dynamic modeling of PV and substation is not important in the proposed method. Within this method, the π line model is used for improving the accuracy of the suggested method. To evaluate the accuracy of the proposed method, the modified 11 node test Feeder is simulated in the MATLAB software and sensitivity of the suggested method was investigated against the different fault distances fault types, fault resistances and fault inception angles. Furthermore, the proposed method is investigated and tested on the real test feeder in power system simulator of power system and protection Lab. in Persian Gulf University. The results indicate the high accuracy of the algorithm.
Measurement of fault resistances in transmission lines by using recorded signals at both line ends
 This article shows the results obtained by using a method for the calculation of fault resistances in transmission lines, like these resistances are really seen at the location of protective relays. The method is based on a well-known algorithm for fault location, which is complemented here in order to compute the fault resistances. The original algorithm for fault location only uses information from one line end, and it is applied twice here (once from each line end) in order to obtain the information to compute the fault resistances. For each fault, a fault resistance is computed from each line end, and the reported value is the average of both values if they satisfy the selected criterion of coherence (otherwise, the measurement is considered as no valid). This method was applied for the measurement of fault resistances for 70 actual faults, recorded at different voltage levels (230 kV, 400 kV, and 765 kV). The statistical behavior of these measured values shows that the fault resistances are moderate in a high percentage of cases. The knowledge about the statistical behavior of fault resistances is important for the protection of transmission lines, and these results can be complemented in the future by analyzing more data, in order to improve this knowledge. Other methods, based in other fault location algorithms, could be also applied in order to obtain the measured values of fault resistances from recorded data of real faults. The application of a criterion of coherence, for comparing the computed values of fault resistance from each line end, is a novel idea and it is important to consider the possible imperfections in the measurements and/or in power system models.
Fault localization for transmission lines with optimal Phasor Measurement Units
 This paper discusses a novel fault localization algorithm for multi-terminal transmission lines. The technique is tested for different fault types and fault locations. The exact fault location is determined along with the latitude and longitude by involving geo-referenced data of the power system. In addition, Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) are effectively used for complete system observability. The number of PMUs is optimised using Genetic Algorithm. Thus, the objective is to find the distance of the fault occurrence and to locate the fault point along with the latitude and longitude, using optimal PMUs. For evaluation purpose, Indian Utility (TamilNadu Electricity Board) 49 bus system is used and validated, using software such as MATLAB, Power World Simulator and Google Earth View. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed technique to spot the exact fault point in the transmission lines with a minimum number of PMUs, to make the concept economical.
Impedance-based fault location methods: Sensitivity analysis and performance improvement
 This paper deals with analysis and improvement of two-terminal impedance based fault location methods for transmission lines. Firstly, a customised sensitivity analysis (CSA) for this class of methods is discussed, which allows a more comprehensive analysis than those so far used for evaluating the robustness to uncertainties of the input parameters (such as phasors and electrical line parameters). Second, a customised modal transformation (CMT) is derived from CSA, aiming to improve impedance-based fault location methods for performance. Such an approach uses the Park transformation along with a cost function obtained from the CSA. To assess the effectiveness of the developed approach, four two-terminal fault location methods from the literature, using both distributed parameter line model and only fault data, are considered. Evaluation tests based on Alternative Transients Program (ATP) simulations have shown that the proposed approach presents results quantitatively superior than other approaches from the literature confirming its applicability.
Fault location scheme for multi-terminal transmission lines using unsynchronized measurements
 In this paper, a simple alternative fault location algorithm for multi-terminal transmission lines using unsynchronized measurements is proposed. The developed data synchronization procedure is employed to identify the faulted leg before the fault location is calculated. The fault location algorithm is independent of the fault resistance and source impedance variations. The proposed faulted leg identification and location algorithm is extensively tested for all major fault types and different high fault resistances. The results show that the proposed multi-terminal fault location algorithm is fast, accurate and immune to power system transients.
Two-terminal AF location scheme for multi-segment combined transmission lines using unsynchronized measurements
 Arcing faults (AFs) have probabilistic and nonlinear nature which is related to environmental parameters. Thus, the conventional fault location methods can not locate the AFs, accurately. This article puts forward a novel and precise AF location technique for multi-segment combined transmission lines which uses unsynchronized measurements from two terminals of the line. The method consists of stages; the number of them is equal to the number of segments plus one. This scheme does not need to employ a selector to identify the faulty segment of the line. Finally, the case studies are carried out using MATLAB/Simulink with variations of fault conditions including fault distance, type, incidence angle and faulty segment of the line, and also with variations of synchronization angle which show that the presented method provides a high accuracy in AF location under various situations.
Optimal placement of voltage measurements for wide area fault location observability considering the uncertainty of network parameters
 This paper proposes an optimization method based on genetic algorithm (GA) to determine the number and location of phasor measurement units (PMUs) in order to wide area fault location based on voltage measurement. In the practical condition, due to the uncertainty of network parameters including measurement errors and inaccuracy of line parameter values, the estimation of the fault location may be not accurate. Therefore, the proposed method has been developed to determine the number and location of PMUs in order to achieve an acceptable accuracy with required reliability. Since the number and location of PMU depends on the fault location method, a new fault location method has been developed with minimum required number of PMUs. The new method can determine the fault location by measuring from one side of the fault point instead of two sides. Therefore, the number of required PMUs is minimized at comparison to previously presented methods. The weighted least-square (WLS) method is used to solve the fault location problem by minimizing the measurement errors. To consider unsynchronized condition of measurements, the formulation has been modified using only the magnitudes of voltage measurements. Finally, the method has been applied on New England 39-bus test system, and the results show the efficiency of the proposed PMU placement and fault location methods in the network with the uncertainty of parameters.
Performance assessment of swarm-assisted mean error estimation-based fault detection technique for transmission line protection
 In this paper, a fast and computationally efficient fault detection algorithm is proposed for power transmission network protection using mean error estimation technique. In order to avoid false detection, instead of adopting the traditional trial and error-based approach, particle swarm optimization-assisted optimal threshold setting method is introduced in this paper. Performance of the proposed fault detection technique is tested for numerous fault and non-fault events generated on a two-bus test power system through MATLAB/SIMULINK software. The observations on results clearly show that using the proposed method even critical faults can be detected securely within a quarter cycle of the 50 Hz power system. The comparative assessment with two existing methods confirms the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
Transmission lines fault location using transient signal spectrum
 This paper proposes a method for fault location on transmission lines, which is based on time to frequency domain transformation of transient signals of the fault instant measured at one end. Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is used for time to frequency domain transformation and frequency of the first fault generated harmonic is utilised for determination of the fault location using the travelling wave theory of the transmission line. The accuracy of the method has been tested using the simulations carried out in Alternative Transients Program (ATP/EMTP) with frequency-dependent distributed parameter transmission line model by considering several cases and various types of faults, different values of fault resistance and phase angle at fault instant. The method has good accuracy and the simulation results show that the accuracy of the method is insensitive to the fault resistance and phase angle of the fault instant. Reactive elements may affect the resolution but, it can be removed by applying the correction procedure proposed.
Online fault location on AC cables in underground transmission systems using sheath currents
 This paper studies online travelling wave methods for fault location on a crossbonded cable system using sheath currents. During the construction of the electrical connection to the 400 MW off shore wind farm Anholt, it was possible to perform measurements on a 38.4 km crossbonded cable system. At 31.4 km, all cables were accessible which made it possible to apply a fault using an arc free breaker and measure the travelling waves at each end of the cable. On a crossbonded cable system, the sheaths are short circuited and grounded at both ends. This makes possible the use of low voltage Rogowski coils if the sheath currents contain the necessary information for accurate fault location. In this paper, this is examined by analysis of field measurements and through a study of simulations. The wavelet transform and a visual inspection method are used and the accuracy is compared. Field measurements and simulations are compared for testing the reliability of using simulations for studying fault location methods.
Fault location method applied to transmission lines of general configuration
 Power quality is an important concern once automation is present in almost all industrial process. Since fault occurrences affects the power quality considerably, in this paper is proposed a new fault location method applied to transmission lines constituted of any configuration, as example double circuit, untransposed sections, and multiple derivations. In order to locate the fault, the method uses voltage and current phasors gathered from terminals with measures, however the method does not need these measures from all terminals. The proposed method is composed of three blocks to locate the fault, which are: Algorithm’s Main Control, Grid Scanning Process, and Objective Function’s Minimization Process. A large number of simulations were conducted and the results show the accuracy and efficiency of the method, even in cases of high impedance faults.
Analysis of Fault and Determination of Damping Co-efficient and DC-Offset in a High Voltage Transmission Line
 Fault analysis in transmission and distribution system is an important requirement to safeguard the power system. Fault analysis in a system is carried out for proper choice of protective relaying components in the transmission and distribution system. In addition, an estimate is made regarding the characteristics of the fault for protection by circuit breaker. In order to study the complete performance of faults on transmission lines, the variation of damping coefficient and DC offset of the system is discussed. In this paper, a single phase to ground fault is simulated. The short circuit currents are calculated by simulating faults at various points on the wave of supply and at various distances to account for fault current, damping and DC offset. The fault simulation is done using Electromagnetic Transient Programme
An intelligent algorithm for fault location on VSC-HVDC system
 This paper proposes a novel intelligent algorithm for fault location on the voltage sourced converter-high voltage direct current (VSC-HVDC) system. This method with single-ended measurement makes full use of frequency, time and energy to capture the fault features via Hilbert-Huang Transform (HHT). The time delay, characteristic frequency, energy attenuation and high-frequency energy are used as the input of ε-support vector regression (SVR) to get fault distance. Then bat algorithm (BA) optimizes the parameters of the model with cross validation comparing with other optimization algorithm. Furthermore, high-frequency variance contribution rate (HVCR) is adopted to identify the fault area. The VSC-HVDC simulation system is constructed to verify the reliability and accuracy of the method and the expected accuracy of the proposed method is ±500 m. The results demonstrated that the proposed method still has reliability and accuracy for hybrid transmission line with a small amount of data.
A new methodology for multiple incipient fault diagnosis in transmission lines using QTA and Naïve Bayes classifier
 Transmission lines’ monitoring systems are hybrid-dynamical structures produce a large amount of data that renders faults diagnosis difficult. Moreover, multiple faults of unknown nature can occur simultaneously impeding their discrimination. In addition, the feature extraction step constitutes an inherent limitation to the diagnosis of multiple faults. Indeed, a feature extraction algorithm avoiding any masking effect among between different multiple faults is hard to devise. This paper proposes a methodology dedicated to the diagnosis of multiples faults in transmission lines using both and experimental and calculated Leakage Current (LC) signals’ harmonics as residuals. Measured data from the real transmission line was used to modelling normal operating mode. Besides, different scenarios, including insulator chains contamination with different types and concentrations of pollutants were modeled by equivalents circuits to generate a multiple faults scenario. LCs from deteriorated insulators were inserted in the transmission line normal operating mode to implement a faulty operating conditions model. Qualitative trend analysis (QTA) was used to generate primitives and by exploiting the leakage current difference between normal and faulty operating conditions to define a features extraction algorithm for the diagnosis of specific fault modes. A Naïve Bayes classifier was designed in order to identify the most prominent fault in a multiple faults scenario by means of LC data. The methodology manages to split multiple faults into single faults and reaches a classification accuracy for multiple faults of 95%.
A performance oriented impedance based fault location algorithm for series compensated transmission lines
 This paper proposes a performance oriented fault location algorithm for series compensated transmission lines. The algorithm estimates the fault location based on the calculated fault voltage and current using two end measurements and line parameters. Fault location computations are carried out considering faults existed before or after the compensator location on the line. The calculated MOV impedance is the key factor in determining whether or not the fault is located in front of the compensator. A 380 kV transmission line with a series capacitor and an MOV has been tested for various fault types, fault locations and fault resistances. The results show that the algorithm accurately estimates the fault location for all cases.
Detection and classification of internal faults in bipolar HVDC transmission lines based on K-means data description method
 This paper proposes a novel protection scheme for detection and classification of internal faults in bipolar HVDC transmission lines using the K-means data description (KMDD) method. In the proposed protection scheme, the inverter-side dc voltage and current signals are utilized. Relatively short-time windows are considered for these signals, and the sum values of data windows are calculated. In the preparation stage, for each dc fault type, the KMDD method is applied to some post-fault data generated in various conditions. Then, the obtained centroids and thresholds are used for detecting and classifying new internal dc faults even with unseen conditions. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated for 4320 internal and 2816 external fault cases in a 1000 km bipolar overhead HVDC transmission line under various conditions not seen in the preparation stage. Besides simplicity and low sampling frequency requirement of the proposed protection scheme, the obtained results show that it is fast and accurate enough for the internal dc faults, and also it is stable during the external ac faults and the pre-fault normal conditions.
A new single ended fault location algorithm for combined transmission line considering fault clearing transients without using line parameters
 In this paper a new single ended fault location method is proposed for underground cable combined with overhead lines. In this algorithm fault clearing high frequency transients are used instead of fault-generated transients and the line parameters are not needed. In the proposed algorithm, samples just from voltage transients generated by fault clearing action of circuit breaker are taken from the sending end of the cable line. Applying wavelet transform, the first three inceptions of traveling waves to the fault locator are detected. Using these, the proposed algorithm at first identifies fault section, overhead or cable, and then wave speed is calculated and at last location of fault is determined accurately. Because of using only voltage samples taken from one terminal, it is simple and economic and does not need to GPS and data communication and synchronization. Extensive simulations carried out using SimPowerSystem toolbox of MATLAB, confirm the capabilities and high accuracy of the proposed method under different system and fault conditions.
A new algorithm for fault location in series compensated transmission lines with TCSC
 In this paper a new algorithm for accurate fault location in advanced series compensated transmission lines with Thyristor Controlled Series Capacitor (TCSC) is presented. Time domain modeling of a transmission line and the TCSC system are used in the proposed algorithm. This algorithm consists of two subroutines considering faults in the line sections i.e. in front of TCSC and behind it. Subroutines selection in the algorithm is performed by using a parameter known as the Fault Section Indicator (FSI). FSI is, in fact, the virtual resistance of the TCSC measured during the first cycle of fault inception. The one-cycle FSI trend indicates the faulty section, and an accurate method is adopted for fault location estimation. Extensive simulations were carried out using ATP-EMTP software on a 400 kV, 300 km transmission system with the TCSC installed in the middle of the line. The results confirm the capability of the FSI parameter for correct identification of faulty section and the accuracy of the proposed fault location algorithm.
A new wavelet based fault detection, classification and location in transmission lines
 This paper deals with the application of wavelet transforms for the detection, classification and location of faults on transmission lines. A Global Positioning System clock is used to synchronize sampling of voltage and current signals at both the ends of the transmission line. The detail coefficients of current signals of both the ends are utilized to calculate fault indices. These fault indices are compared with threshold values to detect and classify the faults. Artificial Neural Networks are employed to locate the fault, which make use of approximate decompositions of the voltages and currents of local end. The proposed algorithm is tested successfully for different locations and types of faults.
Fault location on transmission lines little longer than half-wavelength
 AC transmission lines little longer than half-wavelength have been widely investigated as an alternative for bulk power transmission in power networks where the generation plants are very distant from the load centers. However, studies regarding the performance of fault location methods applied to this type of line have not been done. In this paper, two contributions are presented. First, it is shown that conventional impedance-based fault location methods may fail to correctly identify the fault point even when the line shunt capacitance effect is taken into account. Then, to overcome this drawback, an innovative two-terminal impedance-based fault location algorithm is proposed. The algorithm considers the distributed parameter line model with line shunt capacitances thereby is able to reliably identify and correct erroneous fault point estimations that arise due to atypical operational features of this particular type of transmission line. The performance evaluation of the proposed algorithm is carried out by means of Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) simulations, from which a wide variety of faults in a 1000 kV AC transmission line 2613 km long is analyzed. The obtained results indicate high reliability of the proposed algorithm, which is almost insensitive to the fault characteristics, power system load flow, power factor and line transposition schemes.
Methodology for testing a parameter-free fault locator for transmission lines
 This paper presents a comparison between two different approaches to fault location both with and without utilising transmission line parameters. Firstly, an impedance-based parameter-dependent algorithm, derived by using modal transformation theory and fast Fourier transform is presented. The methodology is able to locate the fault whether it is on an overhead line or on an underground power cable. The second algorithm is a parameter-free fault location method that uses time synchronised data. Here, the unknown fault location is determined from voltage and current phasors, synchronously measured at both line terminals. This approach to fault location avoids the requirement for prior knowledge of line parameters, which is advantageous as line parameters are not always known precisely. This paper presents the results of algorithm testing through the use of ATPDraw simulations and MATLAB. The results were validated through laboratory experiments. The results of the line parameter-free model are compared with those from the parameter-dependent model. Both algorithms were tested for single line to ground faults.
A fault location criterion for MTDC transmission lines using transient current characteristics
 Multi-terminal DC (MTDC) transmission system is applied in modern power systems due to its technical features. In an MTDC system, the converter stations are generally connected in parallel. To smooth the DC current output from the converter, the smoothing reactors are integrated in the converter outputs, instead of in the DC transmission line. When a fault occurs on the DC transmission line of the MTDC system, the fault current will flow along the whole DC line. As a result, the protection scheme may not locate the fault accurately. Based on the characteristics of DC filter, this paper analyzes the impedance characteristics of the combinational circuits, and proposes a method to identify the fault location by the characteristic harmonic. A protection criterion of the non-integer harmonics comparison is composed with phase-frequency characteristics curve derived from complex wavelet transform. The inevitable blind zone is analyzed in theory which exists on the terminal of transmission lines just like distance protection in AC systems. The algorithm is successfully tested and compared with other techniques.
New accurate fault location algorithm for parallel transmission lines using local measurements
 This paper presents a new accurate fault location algorithm for parallel transmission lines based on the distributed parameter line model. The new method requires only voltages and currents from one end of parallel lines. Based on sequence networks and boundary conditions, equations can be derived to obtain the fault location. The new method fully considers shunt capacitance of the line, and mutual impedance and mutual admittance between the lines by using accurate model for both positive- and zero- sequence circuits, and obviates the need of iterative process to compensate for the capacitance. The method is independent of fault resistance, remote infeed and source impedances. EMTP simulation studies have been conducted to generate fault cases under various fault conditions to validate the proposed method. The results have shown that the developed algorithm can achieve highly accurate fault location estimates.
A novel single-phase-to-earth fault location method for distribution network based on zero-sequence components distribution characteristics
 Based on distribution characteristics of the zero-sequence voltages and currents of the distributed lines, this paper proposes a novel single-phase-to-earth fault (SPTEF) location scheme for distribution network. Firstly, the distributed parameter model of distribution feeder lines is appropriately simplified according to Taylor series expansion of the hyperbolic functions in the model. The fault factor is constructed to select the faulted feeder. Then, the distribution features of the zero-sequence voltage (ZV) along the feeder line are analyzed. In each section of the faulted feeder, golden section search algorithm is adopted to distinguish the faulted section. Finally, based on the concept of maximum fault current, accurate fault location is realized by genetic algorithm (GA). A radial distribution network model containing different types of distribution lines is established in PSCAD/EMTDC. The calculation results of MATLAB prove the validity, reliability and accuracy of the proposed fault location scheme.
Fault location scheme for a multi-terminal transmission line based on current traveling waves
 As very little research on the fault location for multi-terminal transmission lines based on current traveling waves only has been done, a new fault location scheme on this is proposed. The proposed scheme is different from the traditional ones based on fundamental impedance. Fast Intrinsic Mode Decomposition (FIMD) and Teager Energy Operator (TEO) are combined (FIMD&TEO) to detect the arrival time of the traveling wave at each terminal. Fault Distance Ratio Matrix (FDRM) and rules for identifying faulted sections of a multi-terminal transmission line are proposed and the method for building FDRM is presented in this paper. After several couples of local and remote terminals connecting through the faulted section are got, their fault distances are calculated by means of a two-ended traveling wave method, and then the fault point can be located by averaging the fault distances. Many simulations under various fault conditions have been done, and the results show that the proposed scheme can locate faults more accurately than existing impedance-based methods.
Generalized neural network and wavelet transform based approach for fault location estimation of a transmission line
 To maintain the efficient and reliable operation of power systems, it is extremely important that the transmission line faults need to be detected and located in a reliable and accurate manner. A number of mathematical and intelligent techniques are available in the literature for estimating the fault location. However, the results are not satisfactory due to the wide variation in operating conditions such as system loading level, fault inception instance, fault resistance and dc offset and harmonics contents in the transient signal of the faulted transmission line. Keeping in view of aforesaid, a new approach based on generalized neural network (GNN) with wavelet transform is presented for fault location estimation. Wavelet transform is used to extract the features of faulty current signals in terms of standard deviation. Obtained features are used as an input to the GNN model for estimating the location of fault in a given transmission systems. Results obtained from GNN model are compared with ANN and well established mathematical models and found more accurate.
A new FDOST entropy based intelligent digital relaying for detection, classification and localization of faults on the hybrid transmission line
 The paper presents a new digital relaying for detection, classification and localization of faults on the hybrid transmission line consisting of an overhead line and an underground cable. The entropy principle together with fast discrete orthogonal S-transform (FDOST) represented by window dependent bases is utilized for feature extraction and the support vector machine (SVM) classifier model & support vector regression (SVR) model are employed for pattern recognitions to predict the types and locations of faults. After modelling and simulation of the transmission system in Electromagnetic Transient Program (EMTP) software, three phase fault current signals are recorded at one end of the line to extract entropy of FDOST coefficients from each of the three current signals of half cycle duration after fault initiation. The proposed relaying technique is tested on a single-junction and a multi-junction hybrid transmission lines under different fault conditions and is found fast and accurate independent of fault type, fault section, fault resistance, fault inception angle (FIA) and load angle. Another important aspect of the method is that it needs no prior identification of the faulty section for the estimation of fault location. The immunity of the proposed method to noise is also established by testing it with fault current signals impregnated with white Gaussian noise of level 30 dB signal to noise ratio (SNR).
A closed-form solution for transmission line fault location using local measurements at a remote substation
 This paper presents a novel approach for fault location of overhead transmission lines by voltage and current measurements in a remote substation. The method is applicable when not all of the transmission lines in an area are equipped with fault-locators, although there may be a critical substation (CS) in the area equipped with a digital fault recorder (DFR). In the proposed method, the circuit equations of the network are used to find the transfer function between the fault location and each voltage and current measurement in the CS. Next, two auxiliary variables are defined to transform the nonlinear fault location estimation problem into a linear least squares problem. A closed-form solution is then obtained for fault location. The proposed formulation obviates the need to use unsynchronized or synchronized measurements from any other substation. Moreover, the proposed formulation does not necessitate fault type classification or fault resistance estimation. Furthermore, the distributed parameter model of the transmission line is considered in order for the method to be applicable to long transmission lines. Electromagnetic transient simulations for a 15-bus test system confirm accurate fault location estimation on remote transmission lines for different critical substations considered in the network.
New smart fault locator in compensated line with UPFC
 In this paper, a new smart fault locator in a compensated transmission line with a Unified Power Flow Controller (UPFC) is proposed. Three types of features are extracted from the captured fault signals at one-end of the compensated line by using a time-frequency signal processing tool known as the Hyperbolic S-Transform (HST). The HST, with an asymmetrical window, is an improved version of the S-transform. Then, the regression model of the Support Vector Machines (SVMs) with a non-linear kernel function is applied for the fault location estimation. The proposed smart fault locator gives accurate estimation results by involving hidden statistical features which comprise a new type of time-frequency features. The evaluation of the features and the estimation error obtained under different conditions confirm the efficacy of the proposed smart fault locator.
All shunt fault location including cross-country and evolving faults in transmission lines without fault type classification
 This paper presents a fault location algorithm which does not need to classify the fault type before location estimation unlike some fault location methods. All types of shunt fault including the cross-country and evolving faults can be located and also faulty phase can be identified with this scheme. Cross-country fault is defined as earth fault occurring in different phases of same circuit at different location at same or different time. Further evolving faults are faults beginning in one phase and spreading to another phase after a few cycles. Finding the exact location of cross-country faults and evolving faults is not easy because the first involves faults at two different locations and the later involves change in type of fault after few cycles. The standard deviation of approximate DWT coefficients of three phase currents and voltages measured at one terminal of the line are used as input to proposed ANN algorithm. The simulation results show the efficacy and suitability of the proposed scheme under wide variety of fault situation and the percentage error in fault location estimation using the proposed scheme is within ±1% in most of the cases. The distinct advantage of the proposed scheme is that it accurately locates all the normal shunt faults, cross-country faults and evolving faults, which has not been dealt by other researchers simultaneously.
Wavelet-alienation based protection scheme for multi-terminal transmission line
 This paper presents a wavelet-alienation based protection scheme for multi-terminal transmission system. The proposed algorithm makes use of wavelet transform based approximate coefficients of three-phase voltage and current signals, obtained over a quarter cycle to detect, classify and locate various faults. Detection and classification of faults are achieved with the help of approximate coefficients based alienation coefficients of current signals, measured from all the buses of system. The approximate coefficients of voltage and current signals, obtained over a quarter cycle, are fed to artificial neural network to locate the faults precisely, from respective buses. This algorithm has been tested successfully for all the types of faults with variations in location, inception angle and fault impedance. The proposed protection scheme is generalized for N-terminal system followed by successful testing on three-terminal and five-terminal systems.
An enhanced fault detection and location estimation method for TCSC compensated line connecting wind farm
 The paper presents a new approach to enhance the fault detection, and location determination based on travelling waves using Fast Discrete S-transform (FDST) for TCSC compensated lines connecting to wind farm. The FDST is applied to the modal components of measured currents at each terminal to detect the arrival time of the first travelling wave (transient) produced by the fault. The proposed method includes detecting the terminal with fastest arrival time of wave to identify the faulted section and estimate the fault location by using proper distance index. The simulation results have demonstrated good performance of the proposed scheme under different fault locations, fault resistances, fault inception angles, fault types, faulted sections, variations in TCSC parameters and changing wind speeds. The performance validation on the real-time digital simulator (RTDS) platform enhances the applicability of the proposed protection scheme for the TCSC based compensated line integrated with wind farm. The performance comparison with the conventional travelling wave fault location algorithms using Continuous Wavelet Transform (CWT) shows potential ability of the proposed method.
A review on fault classification methodologies in power transmission systems: Part—I
 This paper presents a survey on different fault classification methodologies in transmission lines. Efforts have been made to include almost all the techniques and philosophies of transmission lines reported in the literature. Fault classification is necessary for reliable and high speed protective relaying followed by digital distance protection. Hence, a suitable review of these methods is needed. The contribution consists of two parts. This is part 1 of the series of two parts. Part 1, it is a review on brief introduction on faults in transmission lines and the scope of various old approaches in this field are reviewed. Part 2 will focus and present a newly developed approaches in this field.
A new methodology of fault location for predictive maintenance of transmission lines
 This paper presents a new methodology for monitoring, in real-time, the conditions of the insulation of an power transmission line, detecting and locating anomalies in its operation, before the supply of power is interrupted, thus allowing for preventive maintenance. This method uses the harmonic decomposition of the leakage current to analyze the condition of line insulation and employs a neural network to locate the fault. Experimental measurements were obtained to validate the simulated results.
Transmission Line Fault Detection and Identification in an Interconnected Power Network using Phasor Measurement Units
 This paper proposes a novel hybrid technique to detect and identify transmission line faults in an Interconnected Network using the measurements from Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs). The proposed fault detection and identification technique is based on Positive Sequence voltage and current measurement from PMUs. The proposed algorithm for fault detection and identification is deployed in two stages: First stage is the detection of fault using Positive Sequence Voltage Magnitude (PSVM) and second stage is the fault-location identification through Positive Sequence Current Angle Differences (PSCADs). Sometimes, both of these condition might fail to detect and identify the fault, then another condition based on Positive Sequence Current Magnitude (PSCM) is employed. The proposed hybrid technique for fault detection and fault line identification is tested on a five area interconnected transmission network that employs PMUs at its buses/nodes. During fault, the sequence of PSVM near the faulty line changes or its value drops to minimum, thus detecting the fault. If the PSVM condition fails, then fault is detected by observing sequence and magnitudes of PSCM at all the buses. Fault identification is performed by comparing the PSCAD (Positive Sequence Current Angle Difference) of corresponding node with PSCADs of remaining nodes and maximum PSCAD identifies the faulty line. Simulations are carried out in MATLAB/SIMULINK and results are given for the five area power system. The results verify the proposed fault detection and identification algorithm.
A multiple model filtering approach to transmission line fault diagnosis
 This paper provides justification and implementation for a multiple model filtering approach to diagnosis of transmission line three-phase short to ground faults in the presence of protection misoperations. This approach utilizes the electric network dynamics and wide area measurements to provide diagnosis outcomes. A second focus of this paper is on the reduction of computational complexity of the diagnosis algorithm. This issue is addressed by a two-step heuristic. The first step designs subsystem models through measurement selection. The second step reduces the dynamic model order. The performance of the diagnosis algorithms are evaluated on a simulated WSCC 9-bus system.
Fault location in a series compensated transmission line based on wavelet packet decomposition and support vector regression
 This paper proposes a novel transmission line fault location scheme, combining wavelet packet decomposition (WPD) and support vector regression (SVR). Various types of faults at different locations, fault resistance and fault inception angles on a series compensated 400 kV–285.65 km power system transmission line are investigated. The system only utilizes a single-end measurements. WPD is used to extract distinctive fault features from 1/2 cycle of post fault signals after noises have been eliminated by a low pass filter, and SVR is trained with features obtained from WPD. After training, SVR was then used in precise location of fault on the transmission line. The result shows that fault location on transmission line can be determined rapidly and correctly irrespective of fault impedance.
Detection, classification, and location of faults in power transmission lines
 This paper presents a pattern recognition approach for current differential relaying of power transmission lines. The current differential method uses spectral energy information provided through a new Fast Discrete S-Transform (FDST). Unlike the conventional S-Transform (ST) technique the new one uses different types of frequency scaling, band pass filtering, and interpolation techniques to reduce the computational cost and remove redundant information. Further due to its low computational complexity, the new algorithm is suitable for real-time implementation. The proposed scheme is evaluated for current differential protection of a transmission line fed from both ends for a variety of faults, fault resistance, inception angles, and significant noise in the signal using computer simulation studies. Also the fundamental amplitude and phase angle of the two end currents and one end voltage are computed with the help of the new formulation to provide fault location with significant accuracy. The results obtained from the exhaustive computation show the feasibility of the new approach.
Tree-related high impedance fault location using phase shift measurement of high frequency magnetic field
 Tree-related high impedance faults (THIFs) are one complex type of high impedance faults which occurs when power lines come in contact with live vegetation. These faults could not cause the overhead line to be removed by power line over-current protection during the first cycles. But if the fault current continue to flow through the vegetation, the THIF will eventually go to flashover. Furthermore, the physical changes created by a transient THIF current flowing through the vegetation are irreversible. So, if subsequently a THIF again occurs on the previous vegetation, the fault current goes directly to flashover and line tripping after a very brief delay. Consequently, the failure to early location of THIFs may results in blackout. Therefore, determining the exact distance of the THIFs efficiently contributes to increase reliability of power systems. Given that available high-impedance fault location techniques are not fully effective in the case of a THIF, the need for a more accurate method seems obvious. So in this paper, a novel single-terminal location method based on noncontact magnetic field strength measurement is proposed for THIFs. Suggested technique determines the exact distance of the THIF fault from the sensing point based on the total phase shift of the high frequency component of the magnetic field strength in the plane perpendicular to the conductor axis. Indeed, this study is a follow up to a previous study (Bahador et al., 2017).
A review on fault classification methodologies in power transmission systems: Part-II
 The countless extent of power systems and applications requires the improvement in suitable techniques for the fault classification in power transmission systems, to increase the efficiency of the systems and to avoid major damages. For this purpose, the technical literature proposes a large number of methods. The paper analyzes the technical literature, summarizing the most important methods that can be applied to fault classification methodologies in power transmission systems. The part 2 of the article is named “A review on fault classification methodologies in power transmission systems”. In this part 2 we discussed the advanced technologies developed by various researchers for fault classification in power transmission systems.
A novel single end measuring system based fast identification scheme for transmission line faults
 This paper proposes a novel single end measuring system for fast fault identification in transmission lines (TL). The proposed scheme combines the merits of Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and Karen Bell Transformation (KBT) for the fault analysis process. The proposed scheme is independent on threshold value. The proposed algorithm tested on a 350 km, 500 kV transmission line for different fault types using ATP/EMTP simulation package. Critical issues like a variation in fault location, fault resistance, fault inception angle and different source capacities are validated using the proposed scheme. The scheme extracts distinctive fault features over 1/16 of a cycle data windows with sampling frequency 6.4 kHz. The proposed scheme detects and classifies the fault using only 8 samples from power cycle and the average of fault detection time is 1.25 ms. The obtained results indicate that the developed scheme is fast, reliable, robust compared to the previous works in the literature.
Gear fault diagnosis using transmission error and ensemble empirical mode decomposition
 Classification of spall and crack faults of gear teeth is studied by applying the ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD) to the transmission error (TE) measured by the encoders of the input and output shafts. Finite element models of the gears with the two faults are built, and TE’s are obtained by simulation of the faulty gears under loaded contact to identify the different characteristics. A simple test bed for a pair of spur gears is prepared to illustrate the approach, in which the TE’s are measured for the gears with seeded spall and crack, respectively. EEMD is applied to extract fault features under the noise from the measured TE. The differences of the spall and crack are clearly identified by the selected features of the intrinsic mode functions based on the class separability criterion. The k-nearest neighbor method is applied for the classification of the faults and normal gears using the features. The proposed method is advantageous over the existing practices in the sense that the TE signal measures the gear faults more directly with less noise, enabling successful diagnosis.
Automatic lightning stroke location on transmission lines using data mining and synchronized initial travelling
 The automatic location of lightning stroke impact point on transmission lines is one of the most crucial factors related to the behavior of Electric Power Systems, which can improve the swift recovery of electric power. The usual location of this phenomenon has been based on distance protection relays, which requires operation times of approximately one cycle. This paper presents a high-speed protection approach for the lightning-caused transient automated location on transmission lines or on ground. This work is based on the synchronized initial voltage-travelling waves at both ends of high voltage transmission lines. Lightning strikes at different sections along the 220 kV transmission line are detected at both protection relays by using an algorithm based on the ellipsoidal pattern previously presented in another research project. That methodology uses the projection of original signals. Thus, if these signals are located along the ellipsoidal pattern, the electric power system is operated under normal conditions. Unlike the aforementioned case, if the projected signals are located outside of the ellipsoidal pattern, it represents the presence of lightning strokes. After those signals are detected, initial voltage traveling waves measured by protection relays located at both ends of the transmission line are used in order to localize the lighting stroke impact point. At the instant that a lightning stroke hits either on the phase conductor or the ground, travelling waves propagate along the transmission line. Later on, depending on the impact point of atmospheric discharges, different time instances, which the travelling waves require to arrive at their respective ends, are determined. These times are used to calculate the distance from the impact point to both protection relays. Therefore, this paper presents a concise simple methodology for lightning stroke location on transmission lines or ground based in data mining to perform the signal detection and travelling wave times to determine the location along the transmission line. Simulations of lightning stroke signals on a 220 kV transmission line are carried out in the Alternative Transients Program (ATP). The results show that the behavior of the work is swift and effective in order to locate the impact point, especially in situations where flash current values, inception angles, distances from the impact point to protection relays, direct and indirect lightning and other factors, are considered, since it is immune to flash currents and other features. Finally, the proposed work could be considered as an alternative routine for protection relay algorithms
A state estimation approach for fault location in transmission lines considering data acquisition errors and non-synchronized records
 The performance of algorithms for fault location is directly related to the accuracy of its input data. Thus, factors such as errors in the line parameters, failures in synchronization of oscillographic records and errors in measurements of voltage and current can significantly influence the accuracy of algorithms that use bad data to indicate the faults location. This paper presents a methodology for fault location based on the theory of state estimation in order to determine the location of faults more accurately by considering realistic systematic errors that may be present in measurements of voltage and current. The methodology developed is innovative because, besides calculating the most likely fault distance obtained from measurement errors, the variance associated with the distance found is also determined, using the errors theory. The obtained results are relevant to show that the proposed estimation approach works even adopting realistic variances. Moreover, the fault location brings performance gains compared to a traditional algorithm, available in the literature.
One-end fault location method for untransposed four-circuit transmission lines
 This paper presents a fault location method suitable for untransposed four-circuit parallel transmission lines using the data available at one end of the line. The proposed method employs an accurate distributed parameter line model that fully accounts for mutual coupling between all the lines and shunt capacitance effects. The fault location algorithms are developed in phase-components, one for the case where the fault is in any one of the circuits, the second for the case where the fault involves any two circuits and the third for the case where the fault involves more than two circuits. The proposed method is tested using the transient data obtained by simulating a 500-kV four-circuit overhead transmission line under different fault conditions. The simulations are done using the software “DIgSILENT PoweFactory”. Results obtained indicate that the method is capable of estimating the fault distance with high accuracy for various fault conditions. Also the robustness of the fault location method is investigated.
A study on accurate fault location algorithm for parallel transmission line with a teed connection
 Teed connecting parallel transmission lines frequently subject a variety of technical problems in the view of protection engineering. These problems are mainly due to the mutual coupling between lines and the multiple branch of teed connection, which requires choosing faulted branch before fault location. A new accurate fault location algorithm for parallel transmission line with a teed connection is introduced in this paper. Depending on six-sequence fault component method, the coupled transmission equations are transformed into decoupled ones. Based on the detailed analysis of peculiar characteristic of teed connection, the differential positive sequence component measurement, which is one of the six-sequence fault components, is used to implement fault location for parallel line with a teed connection. The new location algorithm makes full use of the decoupled mode and the teed structure. It is independent of source impedance, fault type, fault resistance and mutual coupling between parallel lines. The algorithm has been tested by EMTP simulations, which indicates that this location method obtains high accuracy under various fault conditions.
Fault location on transmission lines using complex-domain neural networks
 Fault location is a critical task when a severe disturbance is caused by insulation failure on a transmission line. In order to avoid further economical and social costs because of load interruptions, the fault diagnosis has to be concluded as soon as possible. Intelligent systems have been successful in dealing with fault diagnosis problems. This paper proposes the application of complex-domain neural networks for mapping the relationship between electrical signals and fault locations on transmission lines. Complex-domain neural networks allow voltage/current representation without arbitrarily decoupling amplitude and phase. Furthermore, several voltage and current representation schemes, based on electromagnetic transient and steady-state information, are analyzed in this paper. For comparison purpose, these input representations are also tested with real-domain neural networks. The tests consider realistic operating/fault conditions and assume that fault classification has already been handled.
A hybrid method for fault location estimation in a fixed series compensated lines
 This paper proposes a fault distance estimation scheme for fixed series capacitor compensated parallel transmission lines using discrete wavelet transform and decision tree regression. The purpose of the data mining based scheme is to avoid the complicated equation based methods that have been suggested by researchers to overcome the drawbacks of conventional fault location scheme. Although decision tree has inherent advantage over other methods like artificial neural network and support vector machines to work with large data sets, it has not been used in fault location estimation in series compensated (SC) transmission line so far. Decision tree is chosen to locate the faults because of its ability to work with large data set and high accuracy in associating the fault pattern to the fault distance using regression analysis. The discrete wavelet transform processed signals makes the decision process of decision tree regression easy by providing appropriate features. The proposed method is evaluated with variation of fault location, fault type, pre-fault load angle, location of series capacitor, degree of series compensation, fault inception angle, line parameters, inter-circuit faults and fault resistance. The test result of decision tree regression based location estimation scheme ensures that, it can estimate the fault distance accurately.
New algorithm for detection and fault classification on parallel transmission line using DWT and BPNN based on Clarke’s transformation
 This paper presents a new algorithm for fault detection and classification using discrete wavelet transform (DWT) and back-propagation neural network (BPNN) based on Clarke’s transformation on parallel transmission. Alpha and beta (mode) currents generated by Clarke’s transformation were used to convert the signal of discrete wavelet transform (DWT) to get the wavelet transform coefficients (WTC) and the wavelet energy coefficient (WEC). Daubechies4 (Db4) was used as a mother wavelet to decompose the high frequency components of the signal error. The simulation was performed using PSCAD/EMTDC for transmission system modeling. Simulation was performed at different locations along the transmission line with different types of fault and fault resistance, fault location and fault initial angle on a given power system model. Four statistic methods utilized are in the present study to determine the accuracy of detection and classification faults. The results show that the best Clarke transformation occurred on the configuration of 12-24-48-4, respectively. For instance, the errors using mean square error method, the errors of BPNN, Pattern Recognition Network and Fit Network are 0.03721, 0.13115 and 0.03728, respectively. This indicates that the BPNN results are the lowest error.
Fault location in transmission lines based on stationary wavelet transform, determinant function feature and support vector regression
 This paper proposes a novel transmission line fault location scheme, combining stationary wavelet transform (SWT), determinant function feature (DFF), support vector machine (SVM) and support vector regression (SVR). Various types of faults at different locations, fault impedance and fault inception angles on a 400 kV, 361.297 km transmission line are investigated. The system only utilizes single-end measurements. DFF is used to extract distinctive fault features from 1/4 cycle of post fault signals after noise and the decaying DC offset have been eliminated by a filtering scheme based on SWT. A classifier (SVM) and regression (SVR) schemes are subsequently trained with features obtained from DFF. The scheme is then used in precise location of fault on the transmission line. The result shows that fault location on transmission lines can be determined rapidly and correctly irrespective of fault impedance.
Modern optimization algorithms for fault location estimation in power systems
 This paper presents a fault location estimation approach in two terminal transmission lines using Teaching Learning Based Optimization (TLBO) technique, and Harmony Search (HS) technique. Also, previous methods were discussed such as Genetic Algorithm (GA), Artificial Bee Colony (ABC), Artificial neural networks (ANN) and Cause & effect (C&E) with discussing advantages and disadvantages of all methods. Initial data for proposed techniques are post-fault measured voltages and currents from both ends, along with line parameters as initial inputs as well. This paper deals with several types of faults, L-L-L, L-L-L-G, L-L-G and L-G. Simulation of the model was performed on SIMULINK by extracting initial inputs from SIMULINK to MATLAB, where the objective function specifies the fault location with a very high accuracy, precision and within a very short time. Future works are discussed showing the benefit behind using the Differential Learning TLBO (DLTLBO) was discussed as well.
A fault-location method for VSC-HVDC transmission lines based on natural frequency of current
 This paper presents a novel method for locating fault on VSC-HVDC transmission line using one terminal current data. The proposed method is developed based on the natural frequency of distributed parameter line model. In the presence of the large shunt capacitor at both terminals of the VSC-HVDC line, the high frequency traveling wave is approximately totally reflected at the terminals. It is found that the value of natural frequency of VSC-HVDC transmission line is only related to fault distance and wave speed. Using this characteristic, a single-end fault location method is developed. The natural frequency can be obtained by the PRONY algorithm. Compared with traveling wave method, this approach can use any section of the in-fault data to locate fault, without having to capture the instant at which wave-front arrives, which requires higher sampling rate. A short data window is sufficient for extracting natural frequency accurately in practice. The proposed method is verified using the frequency-dependent line model in EMTDC. The simulations have demonstrated validity, rapidity and accuracy of the proposed fault location algorithm.
A covariance indices based method for fault detection and classification in a power transmission system during power swing
 This paper presents a new scheme based on a combination of the current signals covariance with the cumulative approach to identify faults in the power transmission system during the power swing conditions. Primarily, the covariance is used to extract the features which are useful to identify the fault from the current signals that measured at both terminals. The cumulative approach is used to enlarge the fault feature and then create a convenient index for detection and classification during the power swing. The proposed algorithm has been tested through different fault circumstances such as multiple fault locations, multiple fault resistances, and multiple fault inception time. Moreover, fault happened nearby the terminal, fault considering variable loading angles, sudden load change, power flow direction change, faults in the presence of series compensation and fault occurred in the presence of noise are also considered. The empirical results show that the approach proposed in this study has made a reasonable time response, where the fault could be detected within a few milliseconds after the fault inception. Additionally, the simple computation process depicting our proposal makes it more suitable and efficient for practical engineering applications.
A Fault Location and Realization Method for Overhead High Voltage Power Transmission
 The accurate fault location for high voltage transmission line plays increasingly important role in power system so the development and general situation of the research in this field in China and in other countries is introduced in this paper. All the existing algorithms can be classified into three main methods: traveling wave location, single terminal location and two terminal location, the principle and application condition of each algorithm are presented and discussed. Base on the analysis and comparison of each algorithm, the corresponding merits and application limitation are concluded. At last, the prospects in fault location research are described in this paper.
Accurate fault location algorithm for transmission line in the presence of series connected FACTS devices
 This paper presents a new and accurate fault location algorithm based on distributed time domain line model for a transmission line compensated with series connected FACTS device. In the proposed algorithm, in order to compute the voltage drop across the series device during the fault period, the series device model and knowledge about the operating mode of the compensating device are not utilized. For this reason, the proposed technique can be easily applied to any series FACTS compensated line. Samples of voltage and current at both ends of the line are taken synchronously and used to calculate the location and resistance of the fault. The proposed algorithm is not sensitive to fault resistance and fault inception angle and does not require any knowledge of equivalent source impedances. This method has been tested using EMTP/ATP model of a 400 kV, 300 km transmission line compensated with a series FACTS device. The results of computer simulations for different operating conditions demonstrate the very high accuracy and robustness of the algorithm.
Novel filter based ANN approach for short-circuit faults detection, classification and location in power transmission lines
 This paper presents a novel approach for detecting, classifying and locating short-circuit faults in power transmission lines. Based on the proposed approach, a hybrid framework consisting of a proposed two-stage finite impulse response (FIR) filter, four support vector machines (SVMs), and eleven support vector regressions (SVRs) is implemented in Proteus 6/MATLAB environments. The proposed two-stage FIR filter together with the SVMs are used to detect and classify short-circuit faults while the SVRs are utilized to locate short-circuit faults. The implemented framework needs few training samples for training the SVMs and SVRs. As will be shown, for a power transmission line with the length of 50 km, only 6 training samples are needed to train each SVR. The trained hybrid framework carries out the processes of fault detection, classification and location only during 1 cycle which is strictly shorter than the faults clearing time. It means that the proposed hybrid framework can rapidly detect, classify and locate short-circuit faults in power transmission lines before power outage carried out by protection relays. An actual three-phase 230 kV, 50 Hz power transmission line with the length of 50 km is simulated to validate the theoretical results and to verify the proposed technique accuracy.
A novel transmission line relaying scheme for fault detection and classification using wavelet transform and linear discriminant analysis
 This paper proposes fault detection and classification scheme for transmission line protection using WT and linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Current signals of each phase are used for the detection and identification of faulty phases and zero sequence currents are used for the detection of ground. Current signals are processed using discrete wavelet transform with DB-4 wavelet up to level 3. Approximate coefficients are reconstructed using wavelet reconstruction. Performance of the proposed based scheme is tested by variations of parameters such as fault type, location, fault resistance, fault inception angle and power flow angle. The scheme is applicable for both single circuit and double circuit transmission line. All shunt faults and multi-location faults which occur in different locations at the same time are also detected and classified by the proposed scheme within one cycle time. The simulation results show that the proposed scheme is not affected by non-linear high impedance fault and CT saturation.
A new faulty section identification and fault localization technique for three-terminal transmission line
 Owing to mal-operation of the conventional scheme during high resistance ground fault near tap point, a new faulty section identification and fault localization technique for three-terminal transmission line is presented in this paper. The proposed technique utilizes time-synchronized voltage and current signals from all the three terminals. Initially, fault detection based on estimation of superimposed voltage of tap point with reference to all three terminals has been carried out. Subsequently, utilizing the above three estimated superimposed voltages; faulty section identification criterion is formed. Finally, fault localization i.e. estimation of the value of fault distance and resistance has been performed. The authenticity of the proposed technique has been verified by simulating an existing 400 kV Indian three-terminal transmission network in PSCAD/EMTDC software. The simulation results point out that the proposed technique is able to identify the faulty section correctly. Moreover, it precisely estimates the value of fault distance and fault resistance as the percentage error for fault location and resistance remains within ±1.5% and ±3.5%, respectively. Likewise, its performance remains unaffected during wide variation in fault and system parameters. At the end, comparative evaluation of the proposed technique with the existing protection scheme clearly shows its superiority.
An effective fault location technique for transmission grids using phasor measurement units
 This paper presents an effective fault location technique for transmission grids based on phasor measurement units (PMUs). High accuracy in fault location is achieved by using both the fault observability with PMUs placement and an accurate distributed parameter line model for the transmission lines. The work performed in this paper is provided with high performance which is simplicity, sensitivity, stability and featuring robustness to the uncertainties in fault inception angle, load current and fault path resistance, and the accuracy and reliability of the calculation for the technique is very high. This paper illustrates the characteristics of the proposed algorithm and evaluates its performance by using transient fault data obtained from PSCAD/EMTDC simulations.
Fault location on series and shunt compensated lines using unsynchronized measurements
 This paper proposes a simple, accurate and non-iterative fault location scheme for series and shunt compensated transmission lines. The proposed algorithm utilizes unsynchronized measurements from the two ends of a transmission line and the monitoring system if a fixed series compensation (FSC) device is installed. Data synchronization is carried out using post-fault data samples to increase the accuracy. The proposed algorithm is independent of the reference bus selection and is extensively tested for all major fault types and fault resistance variations. The results prove that the proposed algorithm yields accurate estimate of fault location.
Advanced fault location in MTDC networks utilising optically-multiplexed current measurements and machine learning approach
 This paper presents a method for accurate fault localisation of DC-side faults in Voltage Source Converter (VSC) based Multi-Terminal Direct Current (MTDC) networks utilising optically-multiplexed DC current measurements sampled at 5 kHz, off-line continuous wavelet transform and machine learning approach. The technical feasibility of optically-based DC current measurements is evaluated through laboratory experiments using commercially available equipment. Simulation-based analysis through Matlab/Simulink® has been adopted to test the proposed fault location algorithm under different fault types and locations along a DC grid. Results revealed that the proposed fault location scheme can accurately calculate the location of a fault and successfully identify its type. The scheme has been also found to be effective for highly resistive fault with resistances of up to 500Ω. Further sensitivity analysis revealed that the proposed scheme is relatively robust to additive noise and synchronisation errors.
Supervised Learning-Based Fault Location in Power Grids
 In modern societies and with the introduction of “smart power grids,” customers are more sensitive to power outages. There are also more complex power transmission configurations to integrate renewable energy-based power generation at remote locations. Therefore, more efficient and accurate methods of fault location along these complex configurations are required, which target improving power supply restoration process, reducing the overall power outages time and costs, and enhancing end-users satisfaction. The availability of high-resolution/high-volume data, due to the proliferation of intelligent electronic devices in smart grids, paves ground to implement more accurate and intelligent fault location methods. This chapter presents a supervised-learning fault location method for complex power transmission lines by using high-resolution voltage and current measurements data. The fault location methods are developed for two complex high-voltage AC transmission systems, (1) three-terminal transmission lines, (2) hybrid transmission lines. The presented methodologies utilize discrete wavelet transform and support vector machine (SVM) as a supervised learning algorithm where the power system operating and fault conditions are taken into account through the learning steps of the SVM classifiers.
Application of Six-Sequence Fault Components in Fault Location for Joint Parallel Transmission Line
 A new fault location method based on six-sequence fault components was developed for parallel lines based on the fault analysis of a joint parallel transmission line. In the six-sequence fault network, the ratio of the root-mean square value of the fault current from two terminals is the function of the line impedance, the system impedance, and the fault distance away from the buses. A fault location equation is given to relate these factors. For extremely long transmission lines, the distributed capacitance is divided by the fault point and allocated to the two terminals of the transmission line in a lumped parameter to eliminate the influence of the distributed capacitance on the location accuracy. There is no limit on fault type and synchronization of the sampling data. Simulation results show that the location accuracy is high with an average error about 2%, and it is not influenced by factors such as the load current, the operating mode of the power system, or the fault resistance.
Application of Wavelet Technique for Fault Classification in Transmission Systems
 Transmission systems (TS) plays a major role in electrical power systems. The interruption caused to the consumer because of TS faults is substantial. So TS needs a proper protection scheme to ensure continuous power supply to the consumers. This study proposes a novel scheme using wavelet technique for classification of faults in TS. In order to do so, the proposed scheme uses current measurements of just one side of the transmission line. Simulations are performed under different fault conditions using MATLAB. The stability of the proposed scheme under various cases is tested andreliable results have been obtained.
Artificial Neural Network Based Fault Detection and Fault Location in the DC Microgrid
 In DC microgrid, power electronic devices may suffer from over current during short circuit faults. Since DC bus systems cannot sustain high fault currents, suitable protection strategy in DC lines is indispensable. This paper presents a novel use of artificial neural network (ANN) for fault detection and fault location in a low voltage DC bus microgrid system. In the proposed scheme, the faults on DC bus can be fast detected and then isolated without de-energizing the entire system, hence achieving a more reliable DC microgrid. The neural network is trained based on the different short circuit faults in DC bus to ensure its validity. A microgrid with ring DC bus, which is segmented into overlapping nodes and linked with circuit breakers, is built in PSCAD/EMTDC to test the performance of the protection scheme.
A wavelet-fuzzy combined approach for classification and location of transmission line faults
 This paper presents a real-time wavelet-Fuzzy combined approach for digital relaying. The algorithm for fault classification employs wavelet multi resolution analysis (MRA) to overcome the difficulties associated with conventional voltage and current based measurements due to effect of factors such as fault inception angle, fault impedance and fault distance. The proposed algorithm for fault location, different from conventional algorithms that are based on deterministic computations on a well-defined model to be protected, employs wavelet transform together with fuzzy logic. The wavelet transform captures the dynamic characteristics of the non-stationary transient fault signals using wavelet MRA coefficients. The fuzzy logic is employed to incorporate expert evaluation through fuzzy inference system (FIS) so as to extract important features from wavelet MRA coefficients for obtaining coherent conclusions regarding fault location. Computer simulations using MATLAB have been conducted for a 300 Km 400 KV line. Simulation results indicate that both the classification and localization algorithms are immune from effects of faults inception angle, impedance and distance. The most significant contribution of this paper is that the proposed location algorithm has a maximum error of 6.5% with a computational time of about one cycle. Thus both classification and location algorithms can be used as effective tools for real-time digital relaying purpose.
A Novel Methodology for Identifying Cross-Country Faults in Series-Compensated Double Circuit Transmission Lines
 In this paper, a competent mechanism for classifying cross-country faults in series-compensated (SC) double circuit transmission line (DCTL) is presented. Cross-country faults are usually different from frequently occurring short-circuit faults in the transmission system. The faults that strike up at the same time but on different positions in the transmission network and can involve same or different phases are termed as cross-country faults. An occurrence of such abnormality in the transmission network significantly hampered the functioning of traditional distance relaying. This paper presents a novel methodology for discriminating normal short-circuit faults and cross-country faults in SC double circuit power network based on empirical mode decomposition (EMD) and intelligent technique. The efficacy of the proposed mechanism for discriminating normal short-circuit faults and cross-country faults in the series-compensated DCTL system, various cases of normal short-circuit faults and cross-country faults (with varying system conditions) have been simulated in Real Time Digital Simulator (RTDS). The results acquired after performing several test cases reveal the practicability of applying proposed EMD and intelligent techniques based mechanism for classification of cross-country faults from normal short-circuit abnormality in the transmission network.
Smarter Settings-Free Algorithm for Fault Location on Transmission Lines
 This paper presents a new smarter settings-free numerical algorithm for fault location on transmission lines. It does not require line parameters, which is a radical step forward compared to the existing approaches that require this information. Line parameters are only approximately constant; they differ with the loading and weather conditions. Thus, an approach which does not require them would be more robust, accurate and flexible than those approaches that do require line parameter information to determine the location to the fault. This is essential for the fast and secure elimination of faults on transmission lines and leads to a significant improvement in the quality of the energy supply. The new algorithm also does not require synchronously sampled data at the line terminals. The paper presents the results of the initial algorithm testing through the use of ATP-EMTP simulations.
One-end impedance based fault location in double-circuit transmission lines with different configurations
 A one-end impedance based fault location method suitable for double-circuit transmission lines with different end configurations is presented in this paper. The effect of mutual coupling of the circuits is taken care of in developing the algorithm. The method is developed in phase coordinates and hence it does not require the complicated six-order sequence component transformation. It is applicable to both symmetrical and unsymmetrical lines. Depending on the terminations at both ends of the line, eight different cases are discussed. The fault data required to evaluate the effectiveness of the method are obtained by simulating faults in different types of double circuit lines using MATLAB/Simulink. The accuracy of the proposed technique is evaluated by comparing the computed fault location with the actual fault location in the simulated models. It is shown that the method is accurate and robust for small errors in estimated equivalent source impedances.
Arc fault location: A nonlinear time varying fault model and frequency domain parameter estimation approach
 In this paper a frequency domain formulation for nonlinear arcing fault location is presented. The proposed fault location formulation uses as input data first cycles after the fault inception voltages and currents. The formulation is based on circuit analysis and a parameter estimation method. To consider the main characteristics of nonlinear arcing faults, a time varying resistance embedded in a nonlinear model is proposed and used. The formulation is developed for the case of the most frequent single line-to-ground faults using phase components. The effects of fault inception angle, time-varying series resistance, source impedance, load flow, sampling frequency and others factors are investigated and analyzed. This new approach was successfully tested through computer simulation and real data obtained from a Southern Brazilian Energy Utility. The proposed method was developed as dedicated software and is currently used by CEEE-GT.
Sparse voltage amplitude measurement based fault location in large-scale photovoltaic power plants
 Large-scale photovoltaic (PV) power plants contain numerous transmission line branches and laterals inside. When a fault occurs conventional fault location methods face challenges due to the complex system structure and the diversity of PV inverter controls. Most of the published fault location methods cannot be directly used in the PV power plant due to the following issues: (1) Most of the fault location methods consider the PV inverter as a constant voltage source while the actual inverters have varied controls during faults. Without analysis of the unique fault transients of the PV, the fault location will suffer from errors. (2) In a complicated large-scale PV power plant with massive quantity of nodes, the synchronised measurements from all the nodes are almost impossible. A method with sparse un-synchronized measurements is required. Therefore, a new negative-sequence voltage amplitude sparse measurement based fault location method is proposed for unbalanced faults. The improved Bayesian compressive sensing algorithm is used to recover the sparse fault current vector and then determine the faulted node. Both the field testing and the simulation results indicate that the proposed method can locate the faulted nodes accurately and effectively without synchronizing measurement requirements from all the nodes. This method also presents a good performance for various unbalanced fault types, fault resistances, inverter controls and signal noise. All these factors make the propose method feasible for industrial applications.
Diagnosis and Location of the Open-circuit Fault in Modular Multilevel Converters: An Improved Machine Learning Method
 In this paper, the fault diagnosis and location (FDL) problem of the open circuit fault for modular multilevel converter (MMC) is investigated. A mixed kernel support tensor machine (MKSTM) is provided, and it’s employed to improve the support tensor machine which is an important algorithm of machine learning. By extracting the characteristic data of ac current and internal circulation current in either normal operation or open-circuit fault, then training and classifying the obtained samples with MKSTM, FDL of MMC can be realized with the supplied algorithm. Finally, experimental results show that the classification accuracy of MKSTM algorithm is improved observably than single kernel function STM such as linear, Radial Basis function (RBF), sigmoid and polynomial types. Synchronously, the open-circuit fault can be effectively diagnosed and located with the proposed method.
A comparison framework for distribution system outage and fault location methods
 Finding the location of faults in distribution networks has been a long standing problem for utility operators, and an interesting subject for researchers as well. In recent years, significant research efforts have been devoted to the development of methods for identification of the faulted area to assist utility operators in expediting service restoration, and consequently reducing outage time and relevant costs. Considering today’s wide variety of distribution systems, a solution preferred for a specific system might be impractical for another one. This paper provides a comparison framework which classifies and reviews a relatively large number of different fault location and outage area location methods to serve as a guide to power system engineers and researchers to choose the best option based on their existing system and requirements. It also supports investigations on the challenging and unsolved problems to realize the fields of future studies and improvements. For each class of methods, a short description of the main idea and methodology is presented. Then, all the methods are discussed in detail presenting the key points, advantages, limitations, and requirements.
Wavelet-based analysis and detection of traveling waves due to DC faults in LCC HVDC systems
 This paper presents qualitative and quantitative analysis of the traveling waves induced by faults on direct current (DC) transmission lines of line-commutated converter high-voltage direct current (LCC HVDC) systems for detecting the wavefront arrival times using the boundary wavelet coefficients from real-time stationary wavelet transform (RT-SWT). The qualitative analysis takes into account the steady-state operation and the detection of the inception times of both first and second wavefronts at the converter stations. The behavior of the boundary wavelet coefficients in DC transmission lines is examined considering the effects of the main parameters that influence the detection of the traveling waves, such as mother wavelets, sampling frequency, DC transmission line terminations, electrical noises, as well as fault resistance and distance. An algorithm designed to run in real-time and able to minimize the factors that hamper the performance of traveling wave-based protection (TWP) methods is proposed to detect the first and second surge arrival times. Quantitative results are achieved based on the accuracy of one- and two-terminal fault location estimation methods, and indicate the proper operation of the presented algorithm.
A threshold free synchrophasor measurement based multi-terminal fault location algorithm
 A new impedance based fault location algorithm is proposed for a generic multi-terminal transmission network consisting of a main line and tapped branches with no direct measurements available at the intermediate tapping nodes. The core of the algorithm is a threshold free faulted branch search algorithm that systematically compares the multiple estimates of voltages for the tapping nodes, computed using synchrophasor measurements at the terminals. Once the faulted branch is identified, multi-terminal fault location problem is reduced into a two-terminal fault location problem to determine the exact location of fault within the branch. The proposed algorithm is simple and does not involve resource intensive mathematical operations such as matrix inversion. The proposed algorithm was implemented as a module in an in-house developed real-time synchrophasor application software program, and its performance was evaluated using a test setup consisting of a real-time simulator, an actual synchrophasor network, and a phasor data concentrator. The tests showed that the proposed algorithm is capable of correctly determining the faulted branch, except for few faults that are very close to tapping nodes. When the algorithm is used with practical synchrophasor measurements, the fault location error was within a typical tower span for most cases.
HVDC Transmission Line Protection Based on Transient Power
 This paper presents a new protection method for High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) system based on transient power. Behavior of the HVDC system during fault is studied. Variation of transient power and the relation between various parameters of the line are analyzed during each fault. Based on that the protection principle is developed. Transient power is obtained by measuring the voltage and current at the two terminals of the line. Identification of internal and external faults as well as location of DC lone fault can be done correctly and quickly from transient power. The test system is modeled using MATLAB - SIMULINK based on first CIGRE HVDC benchmark system.
A combined impedance and traveling wave based fault location method for multi-terminal transmission lines
 A new fault location method suitable for multi-terminal transmission lines that combines the advantages of both impedance and traveling wave based methods has been developed and presented in this paper. The proposed method first determines whether the fault is grounded or ungrounded by comparing the magnitude of the ground mode wavelet coefficients at the measurement end. Next, the impedance based method is used to identify the faulted half of the line in the case of two-terminal line and the faulted line section as well as the faulted half of the line section in the case of multi-terminal lines. Finally the fault location is determined by taking the time difference between the first two consecutive aerial modes of the current traveling waves observed at one end of the multi-terminal line. The proposed method has been tested on four- and five-terminal transmission lines with different types of faults, fault resistances and fault inception angles using ATP simulation.
Single phase fault location in electrical distribution feeder using hybrid method
 Restoration of electrical energy after each distribution feeder's outage can improve the reliability indices and its efficiency. Accurate fault locating can cause the Power distribution (PD) systems to restore rapidly. PD networks include many branches, laterals, sub-laterals and load taps. Thus, accurate fault locating is very complicated and important. In the present paper, a new combined method is proposed for locating the single-phase fault to earth in PD networks. An impedance-based fault-location algorithm is also used to find the possible fault locations. Then, the new method is proposed for determining the faulty section using voltage sag matching algorithm. In this method, after single-phase fault to ground, the possible locations of fault are determined by using the impedance-based fault-location algorithm. The same fault is simulated in possible locations, separately. The voltage, then, at the beginning of feeder is saved and amplitude and angle of the voltage differences are determined and online databank is generated. This databank is compared with the obtained and recorded amplitude and angle of the voltage differences for actual fault. The real location of fault is specified by the matching value of each possible fault location.
Preliminary assessment of the highest potential transmissivity of fractures in fault zones by core logging
 Fault zones are representative flow paths in rock masses, and the highest transmissivity of fractures in fault zones is important for conservative assessment of groundwater flow velocity for the purpose of radioactive waste disposal. Based on previous hydromechanical studies of fault zones, fault zones without tensile/hybrid damage-zone fractures are unlikely to have experienced faulting in a highly brittle manner, and the highest potential transmissivity of fractures in such fault zones is inferred to be relatively low (transmissivity (T) ≤ 10− 8 m2/s). To verify this inference, this study investigates the relationship between the failure mode (tensile/hybrid/shear) and the highest transmissivity of fractures in fault zones, using results from core logging and flowing-fluids electric conductivity (FFEC) logging in boreholes penetrating a Neogene siliceous mudstone (Wakkanai Formation) of the Horonobe area, northern Hokkaido, Japan. In 96% (35/36) of fault zones where tensile/hybrid fractures were not observed, the transmissivities of flow anomalies detected within the fault zones by FFEC logging are within the range of ≤ 10− 8 m2/s, whereas in 95% (145/153) of fault zones where tensile/hybrid fractures were observed, the transmissivities are within the range of ≥ 10− 8 m2/s. This result supports the above-mentioned inference, suggesting that core observations of whether tensile/hybrid fractures develop in fault zones allow preliminary assessment of the highest potential transmissivity of fractures in fault zones (i.e., potentially T ≥ 10− 8 m2/s or likely T ≤ 10− 8 m2/s). Such assessment increases the efficiency of hydrogeological borehole investigations of fault zones.
Fault location for power grid based on transient travelling wave data fusion via asynchronous voltage measurements
 Considering the complex topology of power grids and their important application, finding an effective fault location algorithm is mandatory. This paper presents a fault location method for power grid based on transient travelling wave data fusion and asynchronous voltage measurements. Firstly, the refraction regularity, attenuation rule and main factors affecting the amplitude of the initial travelling wave are analyzed. Then the modulus maxima of detail coefficients, treated as the feature variables of the initial travelling wave, are extracted via wavelet transform. At last, according to the configuration of the measuring points, fault location scheme based on data fusion theory is proposed. In data level fusion, phase-mode and wavelet transform are carried out in order to obtain the feature variables. In feature level fusion, the fault section is determined through the fault feature variables filtered by the network topology and the artificial neural network is used to fit the relationship between the fault distance and the time difference of arrival between single-terminal aerial-mode and zero-mode voltage. In decision level fusion, the double-terminal fault location algorithm based on the single-ended uploaded data is proposed. The IEEE 30-Bus System is simulated in PSCAD/EMTDC and the fault location algorithm is carried out in MATLAB. The simulation results demonstrate that high-precision fault location could be realized and that practicality and economy are improved without requirements on synchronous sampling.
Energization simulations of a half-wavelength transmission line when subject to three-phase faults—Application to a field test situation
 The purpose of this paper is to supply technical data for the proposed field energization of 500 kV transmission lines present in the Brazilian interconnected system, forming a line, henceforth called AC-Link, slightly over a half-wavelength in 60 Hz. The purpose of the test is to investigate overvoltages and currents that result from the energization of the AC-Link. This paper shows the results of simulations performed in ATP (Alternative Transients Program) when considering the occurrence of three-phase faults along the AC-Link during energization. The results obtained show that, in certain situations, the overvoltages and energies in the arresters may reach very high values and some specific mitigation procedure should be implemented.
Advanced fault location strategy for modern power distribution systems based on phase and sequence components and the minimum fault reactance concept
 A generalized strategy for fault location in modern power distribution systems, which normally include distributed generation, is presented in this paper. The fault location method considers the phase and sequence network parameters and voltage and current measurements at the main substation and at the distributed generators, in pre-fault and fault steady states. The fault distance is estimated from the analysis of all section lines, which is required to determine if the fault is located in a radial or non-radial zone of the power distribution feeder; next, a specific equation is used to determine the exact location. The proposed methodology is validated in the IEEE 34-node test power system, where single-phase to ground, phase-to-phase and three-phase faults were tested, considering 51 different and optimally determined operational conditions. The proposed method has range of estimation errors from −2.8% to 3.2%.
Temperature safety analysis and backup protection scheme improvement for overhead transmission line in power oscillation condition
 The oscillating block module is usually adopted to avoid false action of distance protection of overhead transmission lines during power oscillation. However, this scheme ignores the safe operation of conductor temperature during oscillating block. This paper focuses on the conductor overheating problem and safety protection issue during power oscillation. Firstly, through analysis the differences in conductor temperature calculations under oscillating current, short-circuit current and normal load, a numerical iterative method of conductor temperature rise (CTR) calculation under power oscillating current is proposed using the transient thermal balance equation. Then, the safe operation scheme of transmission line is proposed by setting temperature alarm and temperature off-limit trip out. An improved backup protection based on the combination of temperature and impedance is proposed to avoid false action of distance protection, also provide overheating protection for transmission line during power oscillation. Finally, a two-source power system and the modified 29-bus system are adopted to verify the CTR calculation and the improved backup protection. Results indicate that the proposed scheme can provide effective evidence of safe operation and relay setting for transmission lines through excavating the tolerance ability of overcurrent and oscillating current.
A transmission line fault locator based on Elman recurrent networks
 In this paper, a transmission line fault location model which is based on an Elman recurrent network (ERN) has been presented for balanced and unbalanced short circuit faults. All fault situations with different inception times are implemented on a 380-kV prototype power system. Wavelet transform (WT) is used for selecting distinctive features about the faulty signals. The system has the advantages of utilizing single-end measurements, using both voltage and current signals. ERN is able to determine the fault location occurred on transmission line rapidly and correctly as an important alternative to standard feedforward back propagation networks (FFNs) and radial basis functions (RBFs) neural networks.
Fault Location Using Wavelet Transform in Combined Transmission Systems
 This paper describes a fault location algorithm in actual combined transmission systems of overhead line with underground power cables. The algorithm to calculate the fault location is developed based on discrete wavelet transform(DWT) and travelling wave theory. The proposed algorithm is using the transient signal data from one end of the transmission line instead of the signals from both ends. In addition, the method to discriminate fault point between overhead line and underground power cable section is also proposed. Various simulations are performed to verify the accuracy and effectiveness of the proposed algorithm using EMTP/ATP and Matlab. The simulation results proved that the proposed method has the excellent ability to discriminate the fault section and to locate the fault in the combined transmission lines
A novel transmission line protection using DOST and SVM
 This paper proposes a smart fault detection, classification and location (SFDCL) methodology for transmission systems with multi-generators using discrete orthogonal Stockwell transform (DOST). The methodology is based on synchronized current measurements from remote telemetry units (RTUs) installed at both ends of the transmission line. The energy coefficients extracted from the transient current signals due to occurrence of different types of faults using DOST are being utilized for real-time fault detection and classification. Support vector machine (SVM) has been deployed for locating the fault distance using the extracted coefficients. A comparative study is performed for establishing the superiority of SVM over other popular computational intelligence methods, such as adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) and artificial neural network (ANN), for more precise and reliable estimation of fault distance. The results corroborate the effectiveness of the suggested SFDCL algorithm for real-time transmission line fault detection, classification and localization.
Distribution network fault section identification and fault location using wavelet entropy and neural networks
 Fault location in power system distribution networks is especially difficult because of the existence of several laterals/tap-offs in distribution networks. This implies that the calculated fault point can be wrongly estimated to be in any of the laterals. This paper proposes a new hybrid method combining Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and artificial neural network (ANN) for fault section identification (FSI) and fault location (FL) in power system distribution networks. DWT was used in the analysis and extraction of the characteristic features from fault transient signals of the three phase line current measurements obtained at a single substation relaying point, rather than the double-ended approach used in the existing literature. Entropy Per Unit (EPU) indices are afterwards computed from the DWT decomposition, and are used as input to multi-layer ANN models serving as FSI classifiers and FL predictors respectively. The proposed hybrid method is tested using a benchmark IEEE 34-node test feeder. Comparisons, verification, and analysis made using the experimental results obtained from the application of the method showed very good performance for different fault types, fault locations, fault inception angles, and fault resistances. The proposed hybrid method is unique because of the pre-processing stage done with the DWT-EPU indices, the use of only line current measurements from a single relaying point, and the division of the FSI and FL tasks into sub-problems with respective ANN models.
An optimisation approach for fault location in transmission lines using one terminal data
 A new algorithm for fault location in transmission lines is presented, using in the calculation of fault distance phasors of voltage and current at one of the line terminals, and also the system equivalents at both line terminals. Through an optimisation process, the proposed method is able to find the fault distance in an accurate approach. A parametric analysis of variables present in the phenomenon is developed, showing the performance of the method for different line fault types.
Fault diagnosis and fault tolerance control of multilevel sub-module based on HONBM self-inclusion
 The mathematical relation between the sub-module capacitance and the DC system operation characteristics has been analyzed from 4 aspects including the steady energy exchange process of modular multilevel flexible HVDC system, the dynamic response characteristics of active power control, the transient energy exchange process and the bridge arm protection requirement when the DC bipolar short circuit fault. A fault diagnosis and error prevention strategy for the multilevel sub-module system based on the higher order naive Bayes model (HONBM) is proposed. Firstly, analyze the model structure of the multilevel transmission sub-module, and give the Bayes model structure for the fault analysis of the electrical components in the multilevel transmission sub-module model. Then, based on the theoretical analysis results, the selection principle and the calculation method of the modularized multilevel sub-module capacitance are given. The sub-module capacitance is usually calculated according to the requirements of the steady-state sub-module voltage fluctuation and the dynamic response characteristics of the active power control, and then the calibration is made based on the transient sub-module voltage fluctuation and the bridge arm protection requirements.
A single ended directional fault section identifier and fault locator for double circuit transmission lines using combined wavelet and ANN approach
 Fault section identification and determining its location are important aspects to reduce down/repair time, speed up restoration of power supply and to improve the reliability. In this paper combined wavelet and artificial neural network based directional protection scheme is proposed for double circuit transmission lines using single end data to identify the faulty section and its location with reach setting up to 99% of line length. The proposed method requires the three phase currents and voltage to be measured at one end of the double circuit transmission line modelled using distributed parameter line model which also considers the effect of shunt capacitance. Approximate coefficients feature vector of the three phase voltage and current are extracted using discrete wavelet transform to train the ANN with Levenberg Marquardt algorithm. The proposed scheme involves two stages. The first stage identifies the zone/section of the fault and the second stage calculates the fault location from the relaying point. The proposed combined Wavelet and ANN based fault location scheme is also compared with ANFIS based fault location scheme. The test results of the proposed scheme show that the fault section identification and location estimation is very accurate and the average percentage error in fault location estimation is within 0.001%. This method is adaptive to the variation of fault type (both forward and reverse), fault inception angle, fault location and fault resistance. The main advantage of the proposed scheme is that it offers primary protection to 99% of line length using single end data only and also backup protection to the adjacent forward and reverse line sections.
An improved scheme for identifying fault zone in a series compensated transmission line using undecimated wavelet transform and Chebyshev Neural Network
 Identification of fault position with respect to the compensator is an important component for a series compensated transmission line protection scheme. Based on Undecimated Discrete Wavelet Transform (UDWT) and Chebyshev Neural Network (ChNN), a new fault zone identification scheme for series compensated transmission line is proposed in this paper. The proposed technique uses only half cycle post fault data samples of three phase currents to identify the fault zone with a two-stage methodology. The performance of the proposed scheme has been compared with Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and ChNN based scheme with identical fault cases comprising of all possible ten types of faults under different fault resistances, source impedances, fault inception angles and percentage compensation levels. The result demonstrates that the proposed scheme gives better performance as compared to the other methods proposed in the literature, and the DWT based technique.
An application of global sensitivity analysis in evaluation of transmission line fault-locating algorithms
 Computation of distance to fault on an electrical transmission line is affected by many sources of uncertainty, including parameter setting errors, measurement errors, as well as absence of information and incomplete modelling of a system under fault condition. In this paper we propose an application of the variance-based global sensitivity measures for evaluation of fault location algorithms. The main goal of the evaluation is to identify factors and their interactions that contribute to the fault locator output variability. The sensitivity measures are calculated using the sparse grid integration approach that requires smaller number of samples compared to quasi-Monte Carlo integration. In practice, such analysis can help in: selection of the optimal fault location algorithm (device) for a specific application, calibration process and building confidence in a fault location result. The paper concludes with application examples which demonstrate use of the proposed methodology in testing and comparing some commonly used fault location algorithms.
Application of line surge arresters for voltage uprating and compacting of overhead transmission lines
 This paper discusses the possibility of using line surge arresters (LSAs) for the reduction of switching overvoltages (SOVs) on voltage uprated transmission lines. The method for the selection of LSA energy class and determination of optimum installation locations was proposed. The method was applied in case of improving the overvoltage protection of the transmission line uprated from 220 kV to 400 kV. The possibility of compacting a 400 kV transmission line by installing LSAs was considered. Since a risk of flashover increases due to the reduction of insulation clearances, an algorithm that estimates the risk of flashover was developed and applied in case of compacting a 400 kV transmission line.
An adaptive fault location algorithm for power system networks based on synchrophasor measurements
 This paper presents an adaptive fault location algorithm for power system networks based on synchronized phasor measurements obtained by Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs). To enhance its accuracy, the proposed algorithm is made to be independent of any data that shall be provided by the electric utility. The proposed algorithm requires three different sets of pre-fault voltage and current phasor measurements at both terminals of the faulty line to be obtained through PMUs. The three sets of local PMU measurements at each terminal are used for online calculation of the respective Thevenin's equivalent (TE). Using the method of multiple measurements with linear regression (MMLR), the three sets of PMU measurements are also employed for online calculation of the transmission line parameters. Online determination of the TEs and line parameters ensures avoiding any possible mismatch with the actual parameters due to system loading and other environmental conditions. The proposed method is applied to a 115 kV system selected from the Saudi Electricity Company (SEC) network. The simulation results obtained using PSCAD/EMTDC and MATLABreveal that the proposed algorithm is highly accurate and independent of fault type, fault location, fault resistance, fault inception angle and pre-fault loading.
Accurate one-end fault location for overhead transmission lines in interconnected power systems
 This paper presents a new one-end fault location method for overhead transmission lines embedded in a general n-bus interconnected power system. High accuracy in fault location is achieved by using both an accurate distributed parameters model for the faulted transmission line, and a two-bus Thevenin equivalent network model for the power system that accurately accounts for its interconnectivity. The method has been tested using transient fault data obtained from PSCAD/EMTDC simulations of an 11-bus interconnected power system. The results obtained indicate that the method is capable of estimating the fault distance with high accuracy for various fault conditions. They also indicate that method is sensitive to errors in the value of the local bus impedance, but is insensitive to errors in the value of the remote bus impedance.
Online fault detection and the economic analysis of grid-connected photovoltaic systems
 Monitoring system is essential to maintain optimal performance of photovoltaic systems. An automatic fault diagnosis technique in a monitoring system plays critical role in detecting causes affecting the energy production. This paper proposes a new fault detection technique that analyzes the anomalies observed in terminal characteristics of faulty PV strings and corresponding array. The terminal voltage difference between the module in healthy string and the healthy module in unhealthy string can be employed to locate faulty modules. The main advantage of proposed approach is that it voids the need of string current sensors, and reduces the number of voltage sensors using optimal location of voltage sensors. In this technique, power line communication technology based data transmission is used to monitor each PV module. Additionally, a user friendly web application is developed for easy access of monitored data via Internet. Moreover, an economic analysis has also been carried out to study the cost effectiveness of the proposed fault detection technique; considering different values of interest rate and energy tariffs. The profitability of installed grid connected photovoltaic system is determined through its parameters net present value and pay-back period. Experimental results are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of proposed fault detection technique.
Support Vector Machines for classification and locating faults on transmission lines
 This paper presents a new approach to classify fault types and predict the fault location in the high-voltage power transmission lines, by using Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Wavelet Transform (WT) of the measured one-terminal voltage and current transient signals. Wavelet entropy criterion is applied to wavelet detail coefficients to reduce the size of feature vector before classification and prediction stages. The experiments performed for different kinds of faults occurred on the transmission line have proved very good accuracy of the proposed fault location algorithm. The fault classification error is below 1% for all tested fault conditions. The average error of fault location in a 380 kV–360-km transmission line is below 0.26% and the maximum error did not exceed 0.95 km.
An accurate fault location algorithm for parallel transmission lines using one-terminal data
 An accurate fault location algorithm for parallel transmission lines, using fundamental frequency components of post-fault voltage and current measured at one terminal, is described in this paper. Parallel transmission lines can be decoupled into the common component net and differential component net. In differential component net, the current distributing coefficient is a function of fault distance, and the differential component current at the fault point can be expressed in terms of the current at the local terminal. Therefore, for asymmetrical faults, the phase fault current can also be expressed as a function of local terminal current and fault distance. With the fault boundary conditions for a given fault type, the fault location equations can then be derived. Based on distributed parameter line model, the proposed algorithm achieves superior locating accuracy, with mutual coupling between circuits, source impedance and fault resistance having very little influence on the locating accuracy. The performance of new algorithm is verified by computer simulation results for transposed and non-transposed lines.
Upgrading transmission line capability by AC–DC conversion
 In recent times, it has been very difficult to build corridors for new overhead lines in industrialized countries like India due to various constraints. To avoid such complicated implementation, building of new infrastructure, new methods are required to upgrade conventional overhead lines. The conversion from AC to DC lines is an alternative way to upgrade the capability of power transmission in order to avoid Rights Of Way (ROW) issues. Hence, in this paper, a methodology is adapted to convert the High Voltage AC (HVAC) line and High Voltage DC (HVDC) for improved power transmission. Electric Field Intensity and Magnetic Field Intensity are evaluated and a real-time data over 400 kV transmission network is analysed to test its performance. The identified network is also analysed under steady and dynamic state with ETAP/PSS/E tool to measure the performance of power transmitted. Further, load flow analysis, short circuit and transient stability are also studied to check the efficacy of the methods adopted to convert HVAC to HVDC lines.
Adaptive algorithm for transmission line protection in the presence of UPFC
 The presence of flexible ac transmission system (FACTS) controllers in transmission lines causes mal-operation of distance relays. The series-shunt FACTS devices have larger influence on the performance of the relays compare to the other FACTS controllers. Furthermore, high-resistance fault is another factor that relay become under-reach and cannot correctly identify the fault. In this paper, a method is provided based on synchrophasors to eliminate the effects of unified power-flow controller (UPFC) and fault resistance on the distance relay. In the presented method, the data of voltage and current signals of buses will be sent to system protection center (SPC). In SPC, an algorithm is provided based on active power calculation in buses which is able to eliminate the effects of both mentioned factors. The main advantage of the proposed method, in addition to the simplicity of the algorithm, is the ability to operate in all types of faults and in high-resistance faults. Furthermore, a technique is presented in this paper to calculate UPFC data. A comparison has been performed between this technique and another method where UPFC data is directly transmitted to SPC by communication channel. In modeling of UPFC, detail model is used based on 48-pulses voltage source converters.
SVM based zonal setting of Mho relay for shunt compensated transmission line
 Presence of shunt FACTS (Flexible Alternating Current Transmission System) device significantly affect the performance of protection system and may create security and reliability issues. This paper introduces a novel approach for zone identification in transmission line employing shunt FACTS devices such as Static Var Compensator (SVC) and Static Synchronous Compensator (STATCOM). The technique depends on the modified apparent impedance seen by the impedance relay for all possible operating conditions. In this technique the Support Vector Machine (SVM) is used for discriminating faulty zone (zone 1 or zone 2). In addition an optimization technique viz. Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to optimize SVM parameters. A typical 230 kV system was simulated in PSCAD/EMTP software and the results show that the proposed scheme is secure, accurate and reliable under the wide variation in power system parameters like load angle, fault resistance, fault location, inception angle and compensation level.
Novel technique for fault location estimation on parallel transmission lines using wavelet
 In this paper, the novel technique for fault location has been investigated on parallel transmission lines using wavelet. Using this technique, we propose two parts for accurate, rapid fault detection and fault location estimation regardless of mutual coupling between parallel lines. The first part is fault detection and extraction of the fundamental signal using wavelet transform. The second part is fault location estimation using least square error method independent of fault resistance, and the remote in feed, etc. The results of extensive simulation showed that it successfully protected the parallel transmission line compared to the traditional techniques more quickly and reliably.
Adaptive design of distance relay for series compensated transmission line
 The objective of this paper is to evaluate the impact on the operation of conventional three-stepped distance relaying schemes for protecting the series compensation transmission line and to analysis the effects series compensation on different carrier aided transfer trip scheme under different fault condition. The presence of series compensation in transmission creates over-reaching issues in distance relay due to the net fault impedance of transmission line reduce. Analytical studies of such situation are simulated by using PSCAD and analyzed various responses of distance relays for different fault and system conditions. An enhanced distance protection scheme is implemented to eliminates issues on distance relay for series compensated line. It is also simulated the auto-recloser schemes to discriminating between the temporary and permanent fault.
Non-unit transient based boundary protection for UHV transmission lines
 Different from EHV transmission lines, the boundary of UHV transmission lines naturally consists of busbar stray capacitance, shunt reactor and/or series capacitor. The frequency characteristics of the UHV line boundaries with different structures are analyzed deeply, which have significant attenuation on both high frequency signal and low frequency signal. The attenuation is the inherent characteristic of UHV line boundary. Based on the UHV boundary characteristic, a novel boundary protection principle utilizing backward traveling wave is proposed. The fault direction is identified by means of the time-domain energy of the backward traveling wave. The high frequency energy and the low frequency energy of the backward traveling wave are extracted by wavelet transform, and then the forward internal and external faults are discriminated by the product of high frequency energy and low frequency energy. An adaptive setting calculation method in terms of fault type is presented, which is able to improve effectively the right discriminating rate for internal faults. The simulation model of Jindongnan-Nanyang-Jingmen UHV transmission project is established in ATP/EMTP. The simulation results show that the boundary protection possesses stable performance under various fault situations, and the operation time is less than 2 ms, which is appropriate as the non-unit ultra-high-speed protection element for UHV transmission lines.
Fault location and detection techniques in power distribution systems with distributed generation: A review
 Distribution systems are continuously exposed to fault occurrences due to various reasons, such as lightning strike, failure of power system components due to aging of equipment and human errors. These phenomena affect the system reliability and results in expensive repairs, lost of productivity and power loss to customers. Since fault is unpredictable, a fast fault location and isolation is required to minimize the impact of fault in distribution systems. Therefore, many methods have been developed since the past to locate and detect faults in distribution systems with distributed generation. The methods can be divided into two categories, conventional and artificial intelligence techniques. Conventional techniques include travelling wave method and impedance based method while artificial intelligence techniques include Artificial Neural Network (ANN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Fuzzy Logic, Genetic Algorithm (GA) and matching approach. However, fault location using intelligent methods are challenging since they require training data for processing and are time consuming. In this paper, most of the techniques that have been developed since the past and commonly used to locate and detect faults in distribution systems with distributed generation are reviewed. Research works in fault location area, the working principles, advantages and disadvantages of past works related to each fault location technique are highlighted in this paper. Hence, from this review, the opportunities in fault location research area in power distribution system can be explored further.
A new and accurate fault location algorithm for combined transmission lines using Adaptive Network-Based Fuzzy Inference System
 This paper presents a new and accurate algorithm for locating faults in a combined overhead transmission line with underground power cable using Adaptive Network-Based Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS). The proposed method uses 10 ANFIS networks and consists of 3 stages, including fault type classification, faulty section detection and exact fault location. In the first part, an ANFIS is used to determine the fault type, applying four inputs, i.e., fundamental component of three phase currents and zero sequence current. Another ANFIS network is used to detect the faulty section, whether the fault is on the overhead line or on the underground cable. Other eight ANFIS networks are utilized to pinpoint the faults (two for each fault type). Four inputs, i.e., the dc component of the current, fundamental frequency of the voltage and current and the angle between them, are used to train the neuro-fuzzy inference systems in order to accurately locate the faults on each part of the combined line. The proposed method is evaluated under different fault conditions such as different fault locations, different fault inception angles and different fault resistances. Simulation results confirm that the proposed method can be used as an efficient means for accurate fault location on the combined transmission lines.
Transient current similarity based protection for wind farm transmission lines
 Large-scale wind farms are usually integrated into the transmission system. Applying traditional steady-state power-frequency based protection strategies in these transmission lines creates challenges such as: (1) the fault current of the wind farm might be dominated by non-power-frequency components caused by the activation of their own protection systems during fault ride through (FRT). The frequency of the dominant component is determined by the rotor speed at the fault inception and might vary from 0.7 to 1.3 times the power frequency. This will create errors in phasors calculated at the power-frequency. (2) The steady-state fault current angles of wind farms are fully controlled by their power converters. The variety of control actions of the different converters during FRT makes these phase angles greatly deviate from those of the synchronous generators. Protection systems that use double-ended phasors such as current differential schemes will suffer from low sensitivity or even malfunction when large-scale wind farms are integrated. Therefore, a novel full-time transient current waveform similarity based protection scheme is proposed to deal with these issues. The full-time current protection scheme uses both the power-frequency and non-power-frequency characteristics and can therefore reduce the influence of power-frequency phasor calculation errors to a minimum. The proposed method uses the transient current (within 10 ms after the fault inception) and is ignores the features of the steady-state fault current. In other words, the proposed protection is suitable for wind farms with a variety of controls. In the proposed method, the correlation coefficient index is used to calculate the similarity of the transient current signals at both ends of the line. Both experimental and field testing results show that using a common sampling frequency, the proposed protection scheme only uses current information and can correctly identify all types of external and internal line faults in a short period of time and can offer better performance for high fault resistance and noise, both for different types of wind farms. All these features and contributions make the new protection feasible for industry application.
Influence of instrument transformers and anti-aliasing filters on the performance of fault locators
 Anti-aliasing filters are used in cascade with instrument transformers (IT) as part of protective relay data acquisition systems for providing input signals to fault locators. Due to IT and anti-aliasing filters transient responses, the fault locators input data may not be replicas of the power network voltage and current waveforms, and incorrect information may be transferred to protection devices. In this paper, the performance of traveling wave-based and impedance-based fault location techniques are evaluated by extensive short-circuit simulations considering different IT topologies and anti-aliasing filters. The total amount of fault location estimated errors were combined to generate an error function and an original study about a thorough statistical analysis was performed. From the obtained results, the errors can be approximated by a function with normal probability distribution, and the fault location performances are directly affected by the fault-induced amplification and attenuation of the highest frequencies at the IT spectrum and the oscillations presented in the anti-aliasing filters bandpass.
Fault diagnosis system for series compensated transmission line based on wavelet transform and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system
 This paper proposes a new fault diagnosis approach based on combined wavelet transform and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system for fault section identification, classification and location in a series compensated transmission line. It performs an effective feature extraction approach based on norm entropy in order to obtain the features represented main frequency, harmonic and transient characteristics of the fault signals. The proposed method uses the samples of fault voltages and currents for one cycle duration from the inception of fault. The feasibility of the proposed method has been tested on a 400 kV, 300 km series compensated transmission line for all the ten types of faults using MATLAB/Simulink for a large data set of 23,436 fault cases comprising of all the 10 types of faults. Fault signals varying with fault resistance, fault inception angle, fault distance, load angle, percentage compensation level and source impedance are applied to the proposed algorithm. The results also indicate that the proposed method is robust to wide variation in system conditions and has higher fault diagnosis accuracy with regard to the other approaches in the literature for this problem.
Intelligent Location and Analysis of Power Grid Fault Trip Based on Multi-source Data
 China’s southern power grid has been plagued by frequent disasters, such as lightning strikes, wildfires, ice and typhoons, and so on, which pose a great threat to the reliable operation of the grid. It is difficult to meet the requirement of automatic operation in the way of the traditional manual or limited fault location, cause analysis and failure summary analysis report. Data based on the fusion of all kinds of business system, realize the reason of the fault tripping device and automatic analysis, automatic generation of fault tripping analysis report, automatic push in monitoring system fault alarm and send real-time alarm messages. Fault tripping intelligent positioning analysis is helpful to quick accurate positioning, help operations staff in a timely manner to solve fault, quickly restore power, effectively reduce the operations staff report provided workload, improve work efficiency, thus effectively ensure the safe, stable and economic operation of power grid.
Fault classification technique for series compensated transmission line using support vector machine
 This paper presents a new fault classification technique using support vector machine (SVM) for a series compensated transmission line with a fixed series capacitor placed at the middle of the line. The proposed method uses the samples of one cycle duration of three line currents (IR, IY and IB) and zero sequence current (I0) as features of SVM to accomplish the fault classification task. For each of these four currents (IR, IY, IB and I0), one corresponding SVM has been used. The samples of individual line currents and zero sequence current are fed to individual SVMs which, in turn, identify the involvement of the corresponding phase or ground in the fault. The feasibility of the proposed algorithm has been tested on a 300 km, 400 kV series compensated transmission line through detailed digital simulation studies using PSCAD/EMTDC for a large data set of 25,200 test cases comprising of all the 10 types of faults with varying fault resistances, different fault inception angles, different fault positions (before and after series capacitor), pre-fault power transfer levels, percentage compensation levels and source impedance values. The results indicate that the proposed technique is fast, accurate and robust for a wide variation in system and fault conditions.
Improved fault analysis technique for protection of Thyristor controlled series compensated transmission line
 Transmission lines are major component of a power system. Any fault on them results in outage of power not only in the area fed by them but also in the neighboring area as well. Therefore, protection of them is very important. Nowadays, in order to allow maximum power transfer series compensation both uncontrolled and controlled are used. Due to the introduction of compensating devices the protection methodology of transmission lines requires changes. A new transmission line fault analysis method based on half cycle post fault three-phase current data has been presented in this paper for series compensated transmission line equipped with Thyristor Controlled Series Compensator (TCSC). The proposed two-step methodology has been developed with the help of Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and implementation of Chebyshev Neural Network (ChNN). ChNN is derived from regular neural network, but is functionally superior. The performance of the developed algorithm has been tested over a vast fault pattern data set dynamically generated with EMTDC/PSCAD. The results with extensive testing indicate effectiveness of the developed scheme with higher level of accuracy and speed. The algorithm is capable of doing classification with minimal training.
Fault Detection in Transmission Lines Using Instantaneous Power with ED Based Fault Index
 In this paper, a new fault detection method is proposed for protection of transmission lines using RMS values of 3-phase instantaneous powers at both sending end and receiving end. The Input signal of any detection algorithm varies not only in case of faults but also other cases like High Impedance faults and different non fault situations like power swings, CT saturation and frequency deviations etc. Several Detection methods were failed particularly in case of high impedance faults and also at other typical cases. The proposed method is verified for normal faults of different types occurring at different instants and also at various locations. The reliability of proposed algorithm is relatively higher when compared to conventional algorithms. It effectively works under high impedance faults also. The method is tested for various case studies using matlab-simulink software.
Research on Optimal Inspection Strategy for Overhead Transmission Line Based on Smart Grid
 Due to the urgent demand for the monitoring of overhead transmission lines in smart grid, this paper proposes an optimal inspection strategy for overhead transmission line considering time-varying failure rate. Based on the goal benefit function of inspection cost, failure electric cost and the maintaining reliability cost, modal of the inspection strategy is established with genetic algorithm. The reliability index could contribute to a dynamic and variable inspection cycle of transmission line via genetic algorithm. According to the calculation results of the middle area of China, it is presented that the algorithm can work out inspection strategy according to the actual failure rate, and get a rational and economical, regional, seasonal, dynamic inspection cycle plan. Thus, it can avoid the traditional over-inspection and lack-inspection problems. The state of transmission line can be guaranteed in more economical way, satisfying the demand of real-time capability and reliability
A novel synchronous fault identification strategy of electronic transformer based on synergy of historical data
 System disturbance caused by line fault, connection or shedding of power source and large load will frequently lead to complicated electromagnetic interference. Subsequently, the abnormal output signal of electronic transformer is likely to be generated due to the deficiency of electromagnetic compatibility, resulting in the maloperation of protection and control system. The aforementioned problems are promising to be solved with the development of substation area protection. In this paper, the existence of the similar region within which the dynamic characteristics of the transmission line fault are of high similarity is proved. Furthermore, the discreteness hypotheses of topology and state of power system are proposed, and the concept of transmission line same-type fault is acquired subsequently. In addition, based on the similarity between a certain dynamic case and the historical case, the principle, criterion as well as implementation to identify the synchronous fault of electronic transformer are proposed, and the evaluation index for describing the fault degree is also given. The feasibility and applied value of the proposed identification strategy are proved based on the simulation model in PSCAD.
COMPLETE FAULT ANALYSIS FOR LONG TRANSMISSION LINE USING SYNCHRONIZED SAMPLING
 A complete fault analysis scheme for long transmission line represented with distributed parameters is proposed in this paper. The synchronized samples from both ends of the transmission line are the data sources for this scheme. The paper derives a specific feature which equals to zero for normal situation and external faults, and is close to fault current during the internal faults. This feature is used for fault detection and classification. Fault location is then implemented by selecting different methods according to the classified fault type. The results from a comprehensive evaluation study demonstrate an excellent performance of entire fault analysis.
A novel redundant haar lifting wavelet analysis based fault detection and location technique for telephone transmission lines
 The redundant lifting scheme is a perfect tool for wavelet decomposition and reconstruction conducted in the time domain without decimation procedure. In this paper based on the redundant haar lifting wavelet analysis and time domain reflectometry (RHLW-TDR) a novel fault detection scheme is introduced to detect the fault of the telephone transmission lines. The fault time tags are extracted directly from the wavelet detail coefficients. Furthermore, the proposed algorithm is improved to adaptive morphological redundant haar lifting wavelet analysis based time domain reflectometry (AMRHLW-TDR). Comparing to the conventional wavelet based TDR technique, the simulation test and practical experiment results verified the accuracy and convenience enhancement of the proposed methodology and its improved version.
A survey on intelligent system application to fault diagnosis in electric power system transmission lines
 Fault analysis and diagnosis constitute a relevant problem in power systems, with important economic impacts for operators, maintenance agents and the power industry in general. This has motivated the research and development of new algorithms and methods to address this problem. Intelligent systems have been proposed in the literature to deal with this problem in a significant number of applications. In the context of fault diagnosis in electric power systems, this survey presents a review of intelligent systems application to fault diagnosis in electric power system transmission lines. A huge number of related works can be found in the literature, being the major contributions reported in international journals. Then, the works cited in the present survey are restricted to those reported in regular journals that present high adherence to the aforementioned subject. The classification of strategies employed and their relationships with classical techniques are presented and discussed, allowing the identification of the main trends and research areas related to transmission line intelligent fault diagnosis systems.
Identifying an error source in the differential equation approach for the transmission line fault location algorithm
 An overlooked error source in the differential equation approach for locating a fault on a transmission line is investigated. Due to the use of difference equations in the expansion of the differential equation, a mismatch results between the different transfer functions in the frequency domain that are applied to different terms in the same equation, causing an error in the final fault location estimate. This error source is identified and its effect on the fault location estimate is shown through numerical simulation. A criterion is proposed for improving the difference approximation.
Fault location in loop distribution network using SVM technology
 The purpose of this paper is to provide a hierarchical and active fault location method in neutral point non-effectively grounded loop distribution network. It analyzes the distribution of loop closing zero-sequence current with single-phase grounding (SPG) fault occurring in two different topologies. According to the variations characteristics of steady loop closing zero-sequence current, fault section can be determined. Then precise SPG fault position can be got using Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) technology. Even if the fault point cant be located at the first time, the method can still work by repeating the process till the accurate fault position is located. More than 115,200 study cases are simulated on the simulation platform built on PSCAD/EMTP. The results indicate that the proposed fault location method is effective and robust for neutral point non-effectively grounded loop distribution network.
Fault location scheme for combined overhead line with underground power cable
 This paper presents a fault location scheme for transmission systems consisting of an overhead line combined with an underground power cable. The algorithm requires phasor measurements data from one end of the transmission line and the synchronized measurements at the most far end of the power cable. Fault location is derived using distributed line model, modal transformation theory and Discrete Fourier Transform. The technique can be used on-line or off-line using the data stored in the digital fault recording apparatuses. The proposed scheme has the ability to locate the fault whether it is in the overhead line or in the underground power cable. In addition to, the proposed scheme gives an accurate estimation of the fault resistance at fault location. Extensive simulation studies carried out using MATLAB show that the proposed scheme provides a high accuracy in fault location under various fault conditions.
Novel fault location methods for ungrounded radial distribution systems using measurements at substation
 This paper describes novel fault location algorithms for ungrounded radial power distribution systems utilizing voltage and current measurements at substation. Two types of fault location approaches, using line to neutral or line to line measurements, are presented. It's assumed that network structure and parameters are known, so that the during-fault bus impedance matrix of the system can be derived. Then node voltages at substation can be expressed as a product of bus impedance matrix and current injection at substation, from which fault location can be estimated. Evaluation studies based on a 16-bus ungrounded radial distribution system have been performed and it has been demonstrated that accurate fault location estimates can be achieved by both types of methods.
Wide area traveling wave based power grid fault network location method
 Traditional fault traveling wave location schemes, which are based on the fault information of only one line, have lower sensitivity and reliability, especially when one or more traveling wave fault location devices (TWFLD) break down, startup fails or an incorrect arrival time of the initial traveling wave is recorded, this will result in the failure of the fault location. Based on the analysis of the propagation characteristics of the fault traveling wave in power grid, a novel power grid fault traveling wave network location method is proposed in this paper. Firstly, the topology of a power grid is analyzed, and the installation principle of TWFLD is presented. Secondly, when the fault occurs on one transmission line, the fault traveling waves travel from the fault point to the whole power grid, and the values of the arrival time of the initial traveling wave is recorded in the substations where the TWFLD are installed. Then the values of the arrival time are analyzed with the information fusion and the fault point is located by using the power grid fault traveling wave network location method. Compared to the existing fault traveling wave location schemes those are based on the fault information of only one line, all correct time information of the whole power grid has been used to calculate the fault distance in this method. Therefore, this method can achieve reliable fault location even when one or more TWFLD break down, startup fails or an incorrect arrival time of the initial traveling wave is recorded. The simulation results match the theoretical analysis well and show that the proposed location method provides not only high accuracy and reliability, but also good economy. These characteristics are beneficial to further enhancement of the practicability of the traveling wave location.
A validated accurate fault location approach by applying noise cancellation technique
 Generally, fault location in underground transmission cable system is very difficult because of many noises. Therefore, a method to remove the noise in power cable systems is proposed by applying noise cancellation technique based on the correlation of multiple scales of the transients using wavelet analysis. After the noise cancellation, the transient signals reflected from fault point and other end of cable can be used to locate the fault using single-ended approach when the single line-to-ground fault occurs in underground transmission cables. This paper proposes a fault location algorithm using noise cancellation technique in noisy environment. This algorithm is simple and straightforward. The simulation results of 225 fault conditions including different fault resistance, fault location and fault inception angle and real test results prove it can accurately locate the fault in very noisy situations when the single line-to-ground fault occurs in the system.
A current independent method based on synchronized voltage measurement for fault location on transmission lines
 This paper presents a new method based on synchronized voltage measurement technique in order to identify the fault locations in two and three-terminal transmission lines. Due to common problems of current transformers in distance protection of power system and as result increasing cost and reduction of protection accuracy, proposed method is independent of current measurement and based on transmission line terminals voltages measurement. Pre-fault and post-fault voltages at both ends of the line are measured synchronously and used to calculate the fault location. Proposed method calculates the fault location using Thevenin model of faulted system and transforms the whole parameters to symmetric components. Using proposed technique, fault location can be calculated with a lower than 0.6% error without using current transformers. EMTP/ATP simulation results and mathematical analysis show that proposed fault location technique is independent of fault type, fault resistance, fault inception angle and loading angle of the transmission line.
Robust transmission line fault classification using wavelet multi-resolution analysis
 With the advent of high speed communication technology, global positioning system (GPS) and artificial intelligence (AI) techniques, there has been a paradigm shift in the parlance of power grid operation and control. The power system is in a phase of transition towards smart grid with the aid of these techniques to combat against contingencies, leading to reduction of failures and blackouts. The transmission lines are considered to be the back bone of the grid and traverse over difficult terrains. With the advancements in digital relaying and wide-area protection along with GPS technology, philosophy of protection has also undergone a paradigm change to take care of such challenges. This paper explores the possibility of transmission line protection for multi-generator system using wavelet Multi-Resolution Analysis (MRA) technique along with GPS. The inputs for the wavelet transform are the synchronized currents measured by remote telemetry units (RTUs) in conjunction with GPS technology at different buses. The classification algorithm uses wavelet MRA technique to extract features of the transient current signals based on harmonics generated due to abrupt change of currents in a three-phase transmission line caused by different faults. The major contribution of this paper is that the classification algorithm is immune to the effects of fault inception angle, fault impedance, fault distance and power angle. The results validate the efficacy of the proposed algorithm for real time smart grid operation.
Ruptures in overhead ground wire — Transmission line 220 kV
 The broken strand of overhead ground wire (OGW), which is mainly caused by lightning strikes or the vibration of OGW, can lead to serious damage to the power grid system. Power-line maintenance work is generally carried out by specialized workers under extra-high voltage live-line conditions which involve great risks and high labor intensity. If the OGW or OPGW are broken and they fall, this may cause a short-circuit fault of the power transmission lines. Besides this fault, in the event of OPGW breakage, communication interruption will also occur, causing significant damage to the communication system of the electric power utility and the public. Therefore, the melting and breaking characteristics of OGW strands must be clarified. In this research, a case study of a double simultaneous rupture in an OGW, it is analyzed in the Section 3, these simultaneous failures caused by lightning strikes were developed. The effects on the mechanical capacity and structural damaged is analyzed in the Section 4, a discussion has been considered in the Section 5. The calculation way will be also a good tool for developing a new OGW strand that is hard to melt and is broken by high-energy lightning strikes.
Fault location on multi-terminal DC systems using synchronized current measurements
 Multi-terminal dc transmission systems are suitable substitutes for their ac counterparts, once the associated costs are justified. This paper proposes a new traveling wave-based fault location method for multi-terminal dc (MTDC) systems. In doing so, the fault section and its included lines are specified using a straightforward algorithm. Then, an evaluation index is developed to determine the faulted line amongst all included ones in the fault section. Finally, a system of linear equations taking into account the fault inception time, the fault location and the first arrival times at different detector locations are constructed and solved. The method merely needs the first current surge arrival times, thus eliminating the practical difficulties in relation with identifying other traveling wave features. Besides, the fault is easily located despite the complexity of the network topology, i.e., the number of its meshes and radial lines. To examine the effectiveness of the proposed method, a large number of simulation studies are conducted on a complicated MTDC system. Obtained results verify the high accuracy, noise immunity and fault impedance robustness of the proposed method.
Wavelet and neuro-fuzzy based fault location for combined transmission systems
 This paper describes the fault location algorithm using neuro-fuzzy systems in combined transmission lines with underground power cables. The neuro-fuzzy system consists of two parts to perform different tasks. One is to discriminate the fault section between overhead and underground using the detailed coefficients obtained by wavelet transform. The other system calculates fault location. The algorithm for fault location again is divided into two parts: one to calculate the fault location on the overhead lines, the other one for the underground cable section. This system shows excellent results for discrimination of fault section and calculation of fault location.
A transient current based double line transmission system protection using fuzzy-wavelet approach in the presence of UPFC
 This paper presents a wavelet fuzzy based protection scheme for a double line transmission system with unified power flow controller. The protection scheme makes use of current signals at both the ends of transmission line which are synchronized with the help of global position system clock. A wavelet based multiresolution analysis is used to find the detailed coefficients of these signals which are utilized to calculate fault index. These fault indexes are compared with a threshold value to detect and classify faults on transmission system. The approximate decomposition of the current signals is utilized to locate the fault using Fuzzy logic from their respective terminals. The proposed algorithm has been tested successfully for various faults at different locations.
Fault location in underground cables using ANFIS nets and discrete wavelet transform
 This paper presents an accurate algorithm for locating faults in a medium voltage underground power cable using a combination of Adaptive Network-Based Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS) and discrete wavelet transform (DWT). The proposed method uses five ANFIS networks and consists of 2 stages, including fault type classification and exact fault location. In the first part, an ANFIS is used to determine the fault type, applying four inputs, i.e., the maximum detailed energy of three phase and zero sequence currents. Other four ANFIS networks are utilized to pinpoint the faults (one for each fault type). Four inputs, i.e., the maximum detailed energy of three phase and zero sequence currents, are used to train the neuro-fuzzy inference systems in order to accurately locate the faults on the cable. The proposed method is evaluated under different fault conditions such as different fault locations, different fault inception angles and different fault resistances.
Robust functional analysis for fault detection in power transmission lines
 Fault detection methods in power transmission lines aim to detect deviations of the electrical signals from the expected behavior of such signals under normal operating conditions. One approach is to model, as accurately as possible, the expected behavior of the electrical signals under normal operating conditions. Furthermore, even under normal conditions, electrical signals are subject to random noises. Therefore, upper and lower limits must be established. The larger the limits, the harder the fault detection. On the contrary, the narrower the limits the more likely to detect false faults. Functional analysis of power transmission lines was originally proposed to represent the behavior of the electrical signals and to estimate the upper and lower limits under normal operating conditions. Nonetheless, the originally proposed estimates are biased and rely on statistical assumptions that do not hold in practice. This work proposes new methods to estimate the parameters of the functional model and new upper and lower limits that do not rely on specific statistical assumptions. Simulated and real case results show that the proposed robust functional analysis reduces bias and provides more accurate false fault detection rates, as compared to the previous method.
Synchronized measurement based an adaptive distance relaying scheme for STATCOM compensated transmission line
 Protection of bulk power delivering transmission line (TL) is very important for power system stability and reliability. The environmental and right of way restrictions delayed the construction of new transmission line to meet the deregulated power demands. Shunt FACTS devices connected in the transmission system enhances the power transfer capability up to its thermal limit. Shunt FACTS devices have the ability to control series impedance, shunt impedance, current, voltage and load angle. STATCOM is one of such shunt FACTS devices which severely affect the protection system installed for TL. This research work is focused on the addressing the issues with distance relaying of STATCOM compensated TL and to overcome these adverse effects, new adaptive relaying algorithm is presented based on synchronized measurement. The proposed algorithm is implemented in PSCAD EMTDC simulation to validate its performance in terms of accuracy and reliability subjected to various faults on TL. Error in the fault location estimation with proposed algorithm is 0.6% for 300 km TL. To claim the superiority and its accuracy, the algorithm is tested in hardware environment with faults in offline mode.
A fast time–frequency transform based differential relaying scheme for UPFC based double-circuit transmission line
 This paper presents a new differential relaying scheme for a mutually coupled, double circuit transmission line in presence of Unified Power Flow Controller (UPFC) in the line. The process starts at retrieving the three phase current signals at both ends of the transmission line synchronously and processing it though the time–frequency transform such as Fast Discrete S-Transform to derive the spectral energy content of the current signals. The differential spectral energy of current signals (difference between the spectral energy of the current signal at the sending and receiving ends, respectively) of the respective phases of transmission line is used to register the fault pattern. The proposed approach includes fault detection and classification along with identification of the fault section with respect to UPFC location in one of the double-circuit transmission line. The extensive test results indicate that the proposed differential relaying scheme is highly reliable in registering fault patterns in UPFC based transmission line including wide variations in operating parameters of the power network.
Using instantaneous values for estimating fault locations on series compensated transmission lines
 Fault location estimation hitherto is based on using the filtered rms values from both ends of the line. In this paper, a new method for locating faults on series compensated high voltage transmission lines, based on the instantaneous values is proposed. Based on the results achieved with the algorithm previously published, using instantaneous values, the distance to fault location is estimated very accurately. However, the accuracy of the fault location is limited to the ability to capture data samples before the operation of the metal oxide varistor (MOV). The proposed algorithm incorporates special techniques to avoid the limitation caused by the operation of MOV. It is formal that although the accuracy of fault location using the algorithm proposed is slightly reduced, but still acceptable. This paper describes the new algorithm and examines its accuracy as compared to the paper previously published by these authors.
Fault location observability analysis and optimal meter placement based on voltage measurements
 Various transmission line fault location algorithms have been proposed in the past depending on measurements available. These methods evince that if a sufficient number of meters are placed in a power network to record the fault measurements, then the fault location can be reliably estimated. A relevant question to ask may be: how many meters are sufficient in order to derive a reliable and unique fault location estimate for a given network? This paper addresses this question by defining and performing the fault location observability analysis. An optimal meter placement scheme is proposed for determining the optimal locations to place meters so as to make the system observable while minimizing the required number of meters to reduce costs. The proposed method is especially useful for power networks where digital relays have not yet been widely adopted and measuring devices such as digital fault recorders are deployed for monitoring purposes. A sample power network has been employed to illustrate the proposed method.
Analysis of power system faults in EHVAC line for varying fault time instances using wavelet transforms
 This paper evaluates how the occurrence time of fault affects the energy entropy present in a fault signal. The diagnostic method that is proposed is based on calculating the wavelet entropy of sampled signal at different fault occurrence times. The energy of detailed coefficients of db wavelet are extracted at level 1 & level 5 for L–G fault and analysis is done for varying fault times. The analysis can further be extended to other types of faults.
Fault location in power networks with mixed feeders using the complex space-phasor and Hilbert–Huang transform
 The paper introduces a practical approach to power system fault location in power networks using advanced fault signal processing. The three-phase fault voltages are converted to the vector of absolute values of its complex space-phasor. This vector represents fault traveling wave and it is further processed for fault location finding with the Hilbert–Huang transform. The simulation results, including single line to ground faults, faults in mixed feeders and high-impedance arcing faults, confirm the accuracy and practical applicability of the proposed approach.
Online fault diagnosis for nonlinear power systems
 This paper considers the problem of automatic fault diagnosis for transmission lines in large scale power networks. Since faults in transmission lines threatens stability of the entire power network, fast and reliable fault diagnosis is an important problem in transmission line protection. This work is the first paper exploiting sparse signal recovery for the fault-diagnosis problem in power networks with nonlinear swing-type dynamics. It presents a novel and scalable technique to detect, isolate and identify transmission faults using a relatively small number of observations by exploiting the sparse nature of the faults. Buses in power networks are typically described by second-order nonlinear swing equations. Based on this description, the problem of fault diagnosis for transmission lines is formulated as a compressive sensing or sparse signal recovery problem, which is then solved using a sparse Bayesian formulation. An iterative reweighted ℓ1-minimisation algorithm based on the sparse Bayesian learning update is then derived to solve the fault diagnosis problem efficiently. With the proposed framework, a real-time fault monitoring scheme can be built using only measurements of phase angles at the buses.
Fault Locating in Transmission Networks Using Transient Voltage Data
 Generally, short circuit faults are the most important disturbances in power transmission lines. Accurate and fast finding of fault location, are the main characteristics of a proper fault locating system during transient and stable faults. In this paper, after a short review on current methods and techniques in the field of fault locating in transmission networks, a new method has been introduced using the data obtained from single terminal transient input voltage. The Wavelet Transform is used for identification of the transient wave receiving time in associated terminals. The performance of the proposed method has been tested on a standard network against various fault types, different fault resistances, and for several fault initial angles, using MATLAB simulation tools. The obtained results showed proper accuracy and correctness of the proposed technique.
An architecture for online-diagnosis systems supporting compressed communication
 With its ability to detect, identify and, if applicable, recover from occurred faults, online-diagnosis can help achieving fault-tolerant systems. A sound decision on an occurred fault is the foundation for fault-specific recovery actions. For this, typically a large amount of data has to be analyzed and evaluated. A diagnostic process implemented on a distributed system needs to communicate all those data among the network which is an expensive affair in terms of communication resources and time. In this paper we present an architecture for a distributed online-diagnosis system with real time constraints that supports data compression to reduce the communication time. We further present a library of lossy compression methods with guaranteed compression ratios that are suitable for real time purposes.
Laplace-based computation of transient profiles along transmission lines including time-varying and non-linear elements
 In this paper, a combination of a transmission line model defined in the q-s domain (spatial frequency-temporal frequency), the two-dimensional Laplace transform and the principle of superposition is applied to compute transient voltage and current profiles along transmission systems including time-dependent and non-linear elements. The detailed internal information provided by these profiles can be very useful in applications such as insulation coordination design, fault detection and location. The method presented in this paper has significant advantages over the computation of transient profiles using EMTP-type software, given that the latter requires the subdivision of the line, which is time consuming and prone to numerical error accumulation. Additionally, since the line model is defined in the frequency domain, it is possible to include the frequency dependence of the electrical parameters in a very straightforward manner. In order to evidence the accuracy and versatility of the proposed method, several applications examples are presented, and the computed results are compared with those obtained using ATP.
Transmission line relay mis-operation detection based on time-synchronized field data
 In this paper, a real-time tool to detect transmission line relay mis-operation is implemented. The tool uses time-synchronized measurements obtained from both ends of the line during disturbances. The proposed fault analysis tool comes into the picture only after the protective device has operated and tripped the line. The proposed methodology is able not only to detect, classify, and locate transmission line faults, but also to accurately confirm whether the line was tripped due to a mis-operation of protective relays. The analysis report includes either detailed description of the fault type and location or detection of relay mis-operation. As such, it can be a source of very useful information to support the system restoration. The focus of the paper is on the implementation requirements that allow practical application of the methodology, which is illustrated using the field data obtained the real power system. Testing and validation is done using the field data recorded by digital fault recorders and protective relays. The test data included several hundreds of event records corresponding to both relay mis-operations and actual faults. The discussion of results addresses various challenges encountered during the implementation and validation of the presented methodology.
Assessment of impedance based fault locator for AC micro-grid
 This paper proposes an impedance-based fault location determination scheme for the 3-phase micro-grid. The paper describes how voltage and current data during a fault event can be leveraged to accurately locate a fault in the micro-grid including distributed generation (DG). The proposed method uses voltage and current measurements from both ends of the line section in order to determine the fault location. This method is devised in such a way that it evades the requirement of fault type identification by using only one fault location equation. The method is applicable to all types of shunt faults. In the proposed formulation of fault location, the effect of mutual inductance and capacitance of distribution line is also considered. The method is tested on a simulated medium-voltage (MV) micro-grid with doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) and permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) wind turbines connected to specific nodes. The test results indicate that the proposed fault locator can reliably locate faults in the micro-grid with high accuracy.
A WAMS/PMU-based fault location technique
 A WAMS (wide-area measurement/monitoring system)/PMU (phasor measurement unit)-based fault location technique is proposed in this paper. The technique uses synchronized fault voltages of two nodes of the faulted line and their neighboring nodes for fault location. Based on these fault node voltages measured by PMUs, line currents between these nodes can be calculated. Then, node injection currents at two terminals of the faulted line are formed from the line currents. Based on the calculated fault node injection currents, fault node can be deduced or fault location in transmission lines can be calculated accurately. Fault location formulas are derived in full details. Case studies on IEEE-14-bus system and a testing network with 500 kV transmission lines including ATP/EMTP simulations are given to validate the proposed technique. Various fault types and fault resistances are also considered.
Fault Line Selection Method Considering Grounding Fault Angle for Distribution Network
 In the distribution network system with its neutral point grounding via arc suppression coil, when single-phase grounding fault occurred near zero-crossing point of the phase voltage, the inaccuracy of the line selection always existed in existing methods. According to the characteristics that transient current was different between the fault feeder and other faultless feeders, wavelet transformation was performed on data of the transient current within a power frequency cycle after the fault occurred. Based on different fault angles, wavelet energy in corresponding frequency band was chosen to compare. The result was that wavelet energy in fault feeder was the largest of all, and it was larger than sum of those in other faultless feeders, when the bus broke down, the disparity between each wavelet energy was not significant. Fault line could be selected out by the criterion above. The results of MATLAB/simulink simulation experiment indicated that this method had anti-interference capacity and was feasible.
Protection of series compensated transmission line: Issues and state of art
 In the present-day scenario, per-capita power consumption symbolizes the development of any society. This has resulted in a multifold increase in power demand. This drives power engineers to generate and transfer maximum possible power through transmission line, i.e. up to thermal limits, which leads toward installation of compensating devices. However, this inclusion of compensation introduces changes in system parameters, i.e. in its impedance seen from relay point, voltage and current inversion, introduction of sub-harmonic frequency components, etc. This requires changes in existing protection concepts. Therefore, there is a need to track all experiences, developments and research in the field of protection of series compensated transmission line and look for the gaps in it. This paper gives bibliographical survey and general backgrounds of research and development in the field of series compensated lines (fixed capacitor and TCSC) since the application of series compensation. This article also compares and evaluates different techniques with their relative advantages and disadvantages to lead toward optimum technique for application. More emphasis is given to modern techniques. The literature is divided into parts to reduce the difficulty for new researchers to evaluate different techniques with a set of references of all concerned contributions.
Directional relaying using support vector machine for double circuit transmission lines including cross-country and inter-circuit faults
 The conventional distance relaying algorithms are unable to detect the inter-circuit faults, cross-country faults, high resistance faults which may occur in a double circuit line. This paper presents combined Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) based directional relaying and fault classification scheme including inter-circuit faults, cross-country faults and high resistance faults. SVM modules are designed for forward or reverse fault identification and fault classification using single terminal data. The 3rd level approximate discrete wavelet transform coefficients of three phase current signals only have been used. Proposed method is tested with variations in fault type, fault location, fault inception angle, fault resistance, inter-circuit faults, and cross-country faults. The proposed method based on SVM does not need any threshold to operate which is an exceptional attribute for a protective function. As SVMs are not based on comparing with some threshold, rather initially the SVMs are trained with the wide variety of fault patterns which is an offline process and then the trained SVMs are tested online to detect and classify the fault within short time. The test results show that all types of shunt faults can be identified within half cycle time. The proposed scheme offers both primary protection to 95% of the line section and also backup protection to 95% of the adjacent reverse and forward line section also.
A non-unit protection scheme for double circuit series capacitor compensated transmission lines
 This paper presents a non-unit protection scheme for series capacitor compensated transmission lines (SCCTL) using discrete wavelet transform and k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) algorithm. All the protective relaying functions such as fault detection, fault classification, faulty phase identification and fault location estimation have been considered in this work. Such a comprehensive work providing all protective relaying functions for protection of double circuit SCCTL utilizing k-NN has not been reported so far. The signal processing and feature extraction are done using discrete wavelet transform due to its capability to differentiate between high and low frequency transient components. For fault detection and classification, only approximate wavelet coefficient of current signal up to level 1 has been used; while for k-NN location estimation, both voltage and current signals of the two circuits are decomposed up to level 3 have been used. Finally, the standard deviation of one cycle pre-fault and one cycle post-fault samples of the approximate wavelet coefficients are calculated to form the feature vector for the k-NN-based algorithm. The performance of the proposed technique is evaluated for large number of fault events with variation in fault type including inter-circuit faults, fault inception angle, fault location and fault resistance. The change in position of series capacitor and different degree of compensation has been discussed. The accuracy of the proposed k-NN-based fault detection and classification module is 100% for all the tested fault cases with a decision period of less than half cycle. The k-NN-based fault location scheme estimates the location of fault with ≤1% error for most of the tested fault cases, which is an exceptional attribute of the proposed scheme as compared with 10–15% error of conventional distance relaying scheme.
An adaptive single-pole automatic reclosing method for uncompensated high-voltage transmission lines
 This paper proposes an adaptive single-pole reclosing method for uncompensated high-voltage transmission lines. This method is based on the dependence of the fundamental-frequency line-side voltage of the faulted phase on the equivalent fault path resistance representing the arc state and the healthy phase power flow. The moment of stabilisation of the post-arc regime is determined by the absolute value of the real part and the rate of change of the real and imaginary parts of this voltage, ensuring restoration of sufficient insulation strength. The setting is adapted on the basis of interconnected models used for online estimation of the pre-fault regime, fault distance estimation, calculation of the double line interruption regime of the whole network with symmetrical components to estimate infeed for the detailed line model and threshold voltage determination by line model output. The dynamic MATLAB SimPowerSystems simulations under different load flow and arc conditions demonstrate the feasibility and performance of the proposed method.
Performance evaluation of traction and utility network interface: Fault location and protection coordination
 Single phase AC traction systems pose unique challenges to power utilities at interface points of connection on the power delivery network. Traction systems are usually supplied from dedicated utility networks in order to minimise the negative effects that traction loads have on conventional three phase loads, particularly in instances where customer equipment may be sensitive to the quality of supply. The electric utility’s power network is exposed to faults, short duration thermal overloads, temporary over-voltages, high magnitude transient recovery voltages, load unbalance and harmonics which emanate from the traction system. This research investigation evaluates and analyses Eskom’s network and Transnet Freight Rail’s network and presents a methodology for determining fault location and effective discrimination between electric utility and traction network faults. This is essential where there is a lack of protection coordination or difficulty in achieving coordination between the protective devices in each system. The method is further developed into a protection coordination philosophy to ensure that the utility’s protection relays operate for utility network faults only, while the traction system relays operate for faults within the traction networks. The balance of this paper assesses the withstand capability of network equipment against temporary overvoltage caused by single phasing on the utility system; a performance evaluation of high magnitude transient recovery voltage following network faults, and determination of the minimum technical specification of equipment on the system. Results obtained and proposed solutions to minimise the levels of overvoltage for both the temporary and transient cases are presented and discussed.
A rough membership neural network approach for fault classification in transmission lines
 Objective: This paper presents a new approach for fault classification in extra high voltage (EHV) transmission line using a rough membership neural network (RMNN) classifier. Methods: Wavelet transform is used for the decomposition of measured current signals and for extraction of ten significant time–frequency domain features (TFDF), as well as three distinctive time domain features (TDF) particularly in terms of getting better classification performance. After extracting useful features from the measured signals, a decision of fault type of a transmission line is carried out using ten RMNN classifiers. Furthermore, to reduce the training times of the neural network, the rough neurons are used as input layer neurons, and the fuzzy neurons are utilized in hidden and output layer in each RMNN. And the Back Propagation (BP) algorithm is employed for determining the optimal connection weights between neurons of the different layers in the RMNN. Results and Conclusions: To verify the effectiveness of the proposed scheme, extensive simulations have been carried out under different fault conditions with wide variations in fault type, fault resistance, fault location and fault inception angle. Simulations results show that the proposed scheme is faster and more accurate than the back-propagation neural network (BPNN), and it is proved to be a robust classifier for digital protection.
A fault location method for parallel transmission lines
 This paper presents a fault location method for one of two individually transposed parallel transmission lines. This method only utilizes voltage and current data acquired at one common end of the two lines to estimate the equivalent source impedance at the remote end. Therefore, the current through a fault resistance in the fault-path can be computed and the effects of the fault resistance and source impedance of the remote system on the accuracy of fault location can be eliminated. However, this method requires that: (1) a fault occurs only on one of the two parallel lines; and (2) the unfaulted line remains in operation until the fault is cleared.
Fault location using synchronized sequence measurements
 This paper proposes fault location formulas using synchronized sequence measurements. For earth faults, zero-sequence voltages and currents at two terminals of faulted line are applied to fault location. Negative-sequence measurements are utilized for asymmetrical faults and positive-sequence measurements are used for three-phase faults. The fault location formulas are derived from a fault location technique [Wang C, Dou C, Li X, Jia Q. A WAMS/PMU-based fault location technique. Elect Power Syst Res 2007;77(8):936–945.] based on WAMS/PMU. The technique uses synchronized fault voltages measured by PMUs in power network. The formulas are simple and are easy for application. Case studies on a testing network with 500 kV transmission lines including ATP/EMTP simulations are presented. Various fault types and fault resistances are also considered.
ARCING FAULT DETECTION AND FAULT LOCATION ON HV TRANSMISSION LINES
 In this paper a new numerical algorithm for fault distance calculation and arcing fault recognition, based on one terminal data and derived in the time domain, is presented. The algorithm is derived for the case of most frequent single-phase line to ground fault. The faulted phase voltage is modelled as a serial connection of the fault resistance and the arc voltage. The fault distance and the arc voltage amplitude are estimated using Least Error Squares Technique. The algorithm can be applied for distance protection, intelligent autoreclosure and for fault location. The results of algorithm testing through computer simulation and an example of real life data processing are given.
A general fault location method in complex power grid based on wide-area traveling wave data acquisition
 With the development of wide-area measurement technology, it is possible to obtain the fault-originated traveling wave synchronously in a complex power grid. Based on the specialized deployment of the monitoring points and arrival time of initial traveling wave-front acquired by phase-mode transformation and wavelet transformation, this paper proposes a general method for fault-location in complex power grid. Manhattan distance is adopted to find out the accurate measuring combinations, by which the preliminary fault location is calculated. Then the accuracy and robustness of the results can be improved by the fault-occurrence time which is calculated by the information of monitoring points and grid topology relationship. All simulations are carried out in PSCAD and the IEEE 30-bus system is built in order to obtain the synchronization fault signals. The simulation result proves that the proposed method has high accuracy. The uncertainty of the measurement errors is also included in the simulation and shows that the algorithm has high robustness.
An accurate fault location algorithm for transmission line based on R–L model parameter identification
 An accurate time domain algorithm for fault location using one-terminal data is presented. The algorithm is based on the modal analysis and the R–L model of transmission lines, and utilizes the fault-superimposed components effectively. In the algorithm, the differential equations of fault condition networks and pure-fault networks are combined to determine the fault distance. The fault distance, fault resistance and source parameters at the remote end are solved as the unknown variables of a second-order system by finite difference method. This algorithm eliminates influence of the fault resistance and the opposite source parameters on the fault location accuracy, which have been the main source of error for conventional one-terminal approaches. In addition, the paper discusses manipulations of equations to solvable form and the minimum number of equations required. By the analysis to the correlation of measurement equations and the analytic solution of the fault current and voltage in time domain, the paper demonstrates that one-terminal algorithm has the same precision as two-terminal algorithm in theory. The EMTP simulation results show the validity and high accuracy of the new algorithm.
Bearing fault detection and fault size estimation using fiber-optic sensors
 Health monitoring of rotating machinery is commonly based on vibration signals. Instead, this pioneering research provides bearing diagnostics using strain measurements, obtained from Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) fiber-optic sensors. Besides detection of the damage via spectral data, these optical sensors also allow the estimation of damage severity through the direct and accurate measurement of the damage size of small spalls in the bearing races, an essential capability for the prognosis of remaining useful life. FBG sensors are small and can be easily placed in the immediate proximity of the bearing or even embedded inside it, thereby ensuring much enhanced signal-to-noise ratio through the minimizing transmission path effects from remote disturbances. These ball-bearing related diagnostic capabilities of FBG sensors are demonstrated via seeded tests, as well as by means of extended monitoring of bearings during fatigue endurance tests. Sensitivity to FBG sensor location is studied, showing acceptable values at all housing measuring points around the bearing. Fiber-optic sensors appear to have promising diagnostic potential for spall-like faults in both the outer and inner races of ball bearings with a very good discrimination power.
Fast isolation of faults in transmission systems using current transients
 This paper presents a protection scheme that is capable of very fast isolation of faults in high voltage transmission systems. Proposed scheme comprises set of relays connected through a telecommunication network, located at different nodes of the system. Relays use wavelet coefficients of current signals to identify the fault directions relative to their location. Fault directions identified at different locations in the system can be combined to determine the faulted line (or busbar) and isolate it. A robust single ended traveling wave based fault distance estimation approach is proposed as a backup in case of communication failure. Investigations were carried out using time domain simulations in PSCAD/EMTDC for a high voltage transmission system.
An intelligent fault diagnosis system for newly assembled transmission
 Newly assembled automobile transmission has its particular failure characteristic, strict quality testing working procedure on the assembly line is important for quality of automobile transmission. In this paper, we introduce a new automatic fault detection method for automobile transmission. A fault diagnosis expert system for newly assembled transmission is presented, related method of knowledge representation, feature extraction and fault classification is given. Order spectrum analysis method is used to analyze vibratory signal of automobile transmission. After initial feature vectors set are obtained, improved genetic search strategy is used to select fault features, so as to reduce the dimension of feature vector set. Selected feature vector sets are inputted into the BP neural network for fault identification and classification of the newly assembled automobile transmission. A large number of data are collected from industrial site and analyzed, proposed algorithm is verified to be effective and exact.
Automated double-ended traveling wave record correlation for transmission line disturbance analysis
 Automating analysis and correlation of traveling wave data of the same fault event from two terminals of a transmission line is essential for automated double-ended traveling wave based fault location and disturbance analysis. This paper presents a traveling wave data detection and correlation matching method. This method is capable of detecting disturbance events on transmission lines obtained at different terminals based on synchronized data. The traveling waves caused by the same disturbance tend to be captured by multiple recording devices at different observation points, resulting in a significant change in only a few channels for each captured record. The waveform pixel ratio and the featured line of waveforms are extracted based on the possible disturbances that can be identified and recorded at a local database. The correlated searching and feature matching is executed for the remote record database. The correlated traveling wave data for disturbance events can be acquired and then used for locating the event and further analysis. The proposed method is able to extract the effective traveling wave segment corresponding to the same disturbance event from the database at different observation points. This facilitates the automated double-end location. Test results based on field data have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Time-domain fault location algorithm for parallel transmission lines using unsynchronized currents
 Parallel transmission lines under fault can be decoupled into common component net and differential component net. For the differential component net is only composed by parallel lines part and its bus voltages are zero, the voltage distributions along differential component net can be calculated by each terminal current. The novel time-domain fault location algorithm is founded by voltage distributions from both terminals have the least difference at the fault point. The synchronization is achieved by searching the minimal value of locating criterion function, which is calculated by fixing one terminal data and moving another terminal data within a setting time. The proposed algorithm needs a very short data-window, any segment of fault data from transient to steady state can be used to locate faults, and no voltage data is needed. With distributed parameter model, simulations show that the locating errors are less than 0.1 km, and the fault types and fault resistances have no effect on locating accuracy.
Building a fault tolerant framework with deadline guarantee in big data stream computing environments
 Big data stream computing systems should work continuously to process streams of on-line data. Therefore, fault tolerance is one of the key metrics of quality of service in big data stream computing. In this paper, we propose a fault tolerant framework with deadline guarantee for stream computing called FTDG. First, FTDG identifies the critical path of a data stream graph at a given data stream throughput, and quantifies the system reliability of a data stream graph. Second, FTDG allocates tasks by the fault tolerance aware heuristic and critical path scheduling mechanism. Third, FTDG online optimizes the task scheduling by reallocating the critical vertices on the critical path of the data stream graph to lower the response time and reduce system fluctuations. Theoretical as well as experimental results demonstrate that the FTDG makes a desirable trade-off between high fault tolerance and low response time objectives in big data stream computing environments.
Application of extreme learning machine for series compensated transmission line protection
 This paper proposes a new approach based on combined Wavelet Transform-Extreme Learning Machine (WT-ELM) technique for fault section identification (whether the fault is before or after the series capacitor as observed from the relay point), classification and location in a series compensated transmission line. This method uses the samples of fault currents for half cycle duration from the inception of fault. The features of fault currents are extracted by first level decomposition of the current samples using discrete wavelet transform (DWT) and the extracted features are applied as inputs to ELMs for fault section identification, classification and location. The feasibility of the proposed method has been tested on a 400 kV, 300 km series compensated transmission line for all the ten types of faults using MATLAB simulink. On testing 28,800 fault cases with varying fault resistance, fault inception angle, fault distance, load angle, percentage compensation level and source impedance, the performance of the proposed method has been found to be quite promising. The results also indicate that the proposed method is robust to wide variation in system and operating conditions.
Phasor measurement unit based transmission line protection scheme design
 This paper presents an adaptive transmission line protection scheme based on synchronized phasor measurement units. This scheme uses the positive-sequence voltage and current phasors at both ends of a transmission line to determine the parameter of the transmission line and the location of a fault on the transmission line. This scheme can be used for the protection of both single- and double-circuit transmission lines. This scheme is also robust against power swing conditions. A novel adaptive single pole auto re-closer is introduced based on the proposed scheme due to its capability of differentiating transient and permanent faults. System simulation studies show that the proposed scheme is able to operate fast and accurately for transmission line protection.
Novel WRM-based architecture of hybrid PON featuring online access and full-fiber-fault protection for smart grid
 In this paper, a novel architecture of hybrid PON for smart grid is proposed by introducing a wavelength-routing module (WRM). By using conventional optical passive components, a WRM with M ports is designed. The symmetry and passivity of the WRM makes it be easily integrated and very cheap in practice. Via the WRM, two types of network based on different ONU-interconnected manner can realize online access. Depending on optical switches and interconnecting fibers, full-fiber-fault protection and dynamic bandwidth allocation are realized in these networks. With the help of amplitude modulation, DPSK modulation and RSOA technology, wavelength triple-reuse is achieved. By means of injecting signals into left and right branches in access ring simultaneously, the transmission delay is decreased. Finally, the performance analysis and simulation of the network verifies the feasibility of the proposed architecture.
An innovative finite state automata based approach for fault direction estimation in transmission lines
 In this work finite state automata or finite state machine based directional protection scheme is proposed for transmission lines. Phase angle of positive sequence current is used as input to finite state automata based fault direction estimation module. Finite state automata is used as fault pattern recognizer which estimates the direction of fault. The output of the proposed FSM based scheme will be ‘−1’ for reverse section faults and ‘1’ for fault in primary section faults. The performance of the proposed technique is evaluated using data simulated for variation of fault type, fault inception angle, fault location, power flow angle, reverse power flow and fault resistance. Accuracy of the method is found to be 100% from all 11,500 fault cases. Proposed technique does not use voltage unlike conventional directional relaying schemes due to which there is no issue regarding close-in fault detection. The reach setting of the proposed method is up to 99.9% of line length which has advantage over conventional relaying schemes which have reach up to 80–85% of line. Although proposed method is a pattern recognition based technique, it does require an extra training module unlike artificial neural network to estimate the direction correctly. The proposed technique is effective because it do not require any training and the computation complexity is very less as compared to training based algorithms. Proposed method is also tested in an existing power system network of India, which shows accurate result in estimating fault direction.
Parameterless earth fault locator algorithm based on transient surges resulting from single-pole breaker opening
 This paper proposes a novel concept for ground faults locating on the basis of the traveling waves principles for EHV transmission systems. The transient surges generated due to single-pole breaker opening are localized in order to determine the accurate fault distance on the basis of single-end measurements. The proposed fault location concept is independent of the propagation speed. Also, the proposed strategy of creating traveling surges is exploited with synchronized double-end measurements. Time extraction of traveling surges is performed using the second derivative of the aerial mode voltage after breaker pole opening. The proposed algorithm is evaluated using transmission systems of multiple terminals. The results provide evidence the efficacy of the proposed fault location mechanism.
Protection of parallel transmission lines including inter-circuit faults using Naïve Bayes classifier
 Parallel transmission lines are difficult to protect due to mutual coupling between circuits. This paper proposes a Naïve Bayes classifier (NBC) based fault detection and classification technique for protection of parallel transmission line involving inter-circuit faults. NBC is a good classification tool for larger data sets as the training process takes less time with greater accuracy. Input given to the fault detection module is the fundamental components of three phase current signals of both circuits. Input given to the fault phase identification and fault classification module is the fundamental component of three phase current signals and zero sequence currents of both the circuits. Seven separate classifiers are designed for fault phase identification for A1, B1, C1, A2, B2, C2 and G. From fault phase identification module faults are classified. Accuracy of the proposed method is 100% for fault detection and 99.99% for classification of fault from all the tested fault cases. Response time of the proposed method is within 10 ms for all the fault cases studied.
Optimal location and minimum number of superconducting fault current limiters for the protection of power grids
 This paper presents a novel method to determine the optimal strategy for the allocation of multiple resistive superconducting fault current limiters (SFCLs) aiming to improve the overall protection of standard power grids. The presented approach allows for the straightforward determination of the optimal resistance of the SFCL, accounting for short circuit events occurring at different locations, by modelling the electro-thermal properties of the SFCL via a temperature dependent E-J power law. This material law, based on previous experimental evidence, allows for the introduction of flux pinning, flux creep, and flux flow properties of the superconducting material within a minimum level of complexity. Thereby, we have observed a distinctive kink pattern in the current limiting profiles of the SFCLs, from which no further reduction of the first peak of the fault current is achieved when a greater resistance is considered, allowing a univocal determination of the optimum SFCL resistance. This peculiarity is not observed when the model for the quench properties of the SFCL is simplified towards an exponential resistance, although the last can be used as an auxiliary process for addressing the first guess on the resistance value required for a specific strategy, as it demands less computing time. We have also determined that for many of the cases studied, i.e., for the combinations between one or more SFCLs installed at different locations, and those subjected to fault events located at different points in the network, the recovery time of the superconducting properties of at least one of the SFCLs can last for more than 5 min, constraining the feasibility of a large-scale deployment of this technology. However, by assuming that the practical operation of the SFCL is assisted by the automatic operation of a bypass switch when the SC material is fully quenched, we have determined that the optimal strategy for the overall protection of power grids of standard topology requires a maximum of three SFCLs, with recovery times of less than a few seconds. This information is of remarkable value for power system operators, as it can establish a maximum investment threshold which ultimately can facilitate making decisions regarding the deployment of SFCL technologies.
A novel differential protection scheme for HVDC transmission lines
 Based on the compensation of the distributed capacitive current, a novel differential protection scheme for HVDC transmission lines was proposed in this study. According to the analysis, after voltage and current signals at both sides of the line are processed by the same low-pass filter the cut-off frequency of which is low enough, then the voltage distribution along the line can be regarded as linear distribution. The distributed capacitive current can be calculated by integrating the linear distributed voltage. After removing this current, the new differential criterion can be implemented. A ±800 kV HVDC transmission system was built in EMTDC to test the performance of the new protection. Comprehensive test studies show that the proposed method not only can detect internal faults correctly and quickly, but also can respond to internal faults with high ground resistance.
A morphological filtering algorithm for fault detection in transmission lines during power swings
 This paper presents a new algorithm for transmission line distance relaying, tolerant to power swings. The distinction between a short circuit and power oscillation is accomplished with the use of a morphological transform. With this feature it is possible to detect the dc short circuit component that presents a different waveshape during power swings. To show the effectiveness of the proposed technique, computer simulations have been carried out on ATP (Alternative Transient Program). Several faults including different frequency oscillations have been considered. The proposed methodology detect faults in very small times, even under the worst-case scenarios such as balanced faults during power swings.
Fault location and isolation in micro-grids using a digital central protection unit
 Currently, there are significant interests in deployment of renewable and low carbon energy sources in the form of micro-grids for local energy generation. Micro-grids operate in two modes, namely stand-alone and grid-connected. This poses a problem in micro-grid protection settings, in a sense that the fault current magnitude in a micro-grid reduces drastically during its transition from being grid-connected to stand-alone mode of operation. This paper presents a micro-grid protection scheme based on positive-sequence component using PMUs and a digital CPU. The salient feature of the proposed scheme in comparison with the previous works is that it has the ability to protect both radial and looped micro-grids against different types of faults with the capability of single-phase tripping. Furthermore, since the CPU is capable of updating its pickup values (upstream and downstream equivalent positive-sequence impedances of each line) after the first change in the micro-grid configuration (such as transferring from grid-connected to islanded mode and or disconnection of a line, bus, or DER either in grid-connected mode or in islanded mode), it can protect micro-grid against subsequent faults. Finally, in order to verify the effectiveness of the suggested scheme and the CPU, several simulations have been undertaken by using DIgSILENT PowerFactory and MATLAB software packages.
Sequence networks to the calculation of two-simultaneous faults at the same location
 The system of symmetrical components (012-system) can be used to simulate symmetrical and asymmetrical operation of power systems. However, the classical literature of Power Systems Analysis does not present one equivalent circuit in 012-system to two-simultaneous faults where there are a single-line-to-ground fault and a bolted line-to-line fault. This paper presents the equations and the new equivalent circuit mentioned. In addition, we present a comparison of results between the proposed approach and the output of the commercial software ANAFAS, which validates the methodology. We find evidence that the new equivalent circuit developed can substitute the equivalent circuits used to calculate a single line-to-ground fault and a bolted line-to-line fault.
Low cost microcontroller based fault detector, classifier, zone identifier and locator for transmission lines using wavelet transform and artificial neural network: A hardware co-simulation approach
 A low cost, fast and reliable microcontroller based protection scheme using wavelet transform and artificial neural network has been proposed and its effectiveness evaluated in real time. The proposed scheme, based on the hardware co-simulation approach performs all the functions of transmission line protection i.e. fault detection/classification, fault zone/section identification and location estimation. The fault detection/classification and zone identification algorithms use fundamental frequency current component to estimate a fault index. The fault location estimation module uses wavelet transform coefficients in hybridization with a parallel artificial neural network structure. For hardware implementation, a 8-bit ATmega microcontroller is used and interfaced with the simulated power system model using Integrated Development Environment (IDE). The scheme is tested on a power system model of 400 kV, 50 Hz three phase double circuit line with source at both the ends. Laboratory tests have been performed in real time for 20,000 fault cases including evolving faults with varying fault resistance, fault inception angle, fault distance, direction of power flow angle and its magnitude. The tests confirm the suitability and reliability of proposed scheme even with Current Transformer (CT) saturation. The implementation of the proposed approach on a low cost microcontroller with the lesser execution time, makes the prototype ideal for implementation on a digital platform (digital relay), thus leading to financial viability and sustainability of the protection scheme.
Micro-loads electrification: Use of insulated shielding wires of a 500 kV transmission line
 The main purpose of this article is to introduce a different method to electrify 0.5 MVA micro-loads using energy loss confined in insulated shielding wires of a 500 kV transmission line. The mathematical model of the system along with the series tuning reactor, necessary for voltage regulation, is described. Digital simulations are used to identify the maximum induced voltage in the insulated wire and the power extracted from the system. Finally, a transient analysis was presented showing that the modifications did not affect transmission line performance or reliability.
High impedance fault protection in transmission lines using a WPT-based algorithm
 This paper proposes a new algorithm for High Impedance Fault (HIF) protection, in high voltage transmission lines, with the aid of Wavelet Packet Transform (WPT). The new scheme uses the HIF-induced distortion of voltage and current waveforms to detect HIF and discrimination of the fault location, respectively. The algorithm is based on a recursive method, which adds up the absolute values of high frequency signal coefficients, generated over one last cycle. Application of the proposed algorithm to the pilot protection schemes is also discussed. The proposed method is evaluated by Electro Magnetic Transients Program (EMTP) simulation studies. Several simulations, which are performed using an appropriate HIF model, bring about results which assess the proposed technique accuracy in identifying HIF in overhead transmission lines. A comprehensive simulation study shows the efficiency of the proposed protection scheme from the viewpoints of dependability and security.
Online modular level fault detection algorithm for grid-tied and off-grid PV systems
 This paper presents a new fault detection and diagnosis technique for solar photovoltaic (PV) systems operating under grid-tied and off-grid modes. The proposed technique is capable to identify the type and location (module level) of a fault. This technique relies on the local measurements, and model prediction outputs for fault detection and diagnosis. Multiple low cost sensors were used to acquire/monitor solar irradiance, PV module temperature, voltage and current at module level in a PV system. A low cost PV monitoring system based on power line communication (PLC) to monitor the status of each PV module is also described in this work. A new algorithm is developed to detect different types of faults, and to display other essential system information (with a watch window size of 10 min). Additionally, a user friendly web application is developed for easy access of monitored data via Internet. The proposed technique is shown to have lower computational requirements; therefore, the same microcontroller is used for data communication and fault detection without any external hardware or additional simulation software. This technique has been experimentally validated using the PV system developed at the Solar Laboratory, Alternate Hydro Energy Centre (AHEC), IIT Roorkee, India. Experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of proposed technique in detecting the various fault occurrences in both grid-tied and off-grid PV system.
Dynamic modeling of gearbox faults: A review
 Gearbox is widely used in industrial and military applications. Due to high service load, harsh operating conditions or inevitable fatigue, faults may develop in gears. If the gear faults cannot be detected early, the health will continue to degrade, perhaps causing heavy economic loss or even catastrophe. Early fault detection and diagnosis allows properly scheduled shutdowns to prevent catastrophic failure and consequently result in a safer operation and higher cost reduction. Recently, many studies have been done to develop gearbox dynamic models with faults aiming to understand gear fault generation mechanism and then develop effective fault detection and diagnosis methods. This paper focuses on dynamics based gearbox fault modeling, detection and diagnosis. State-of-art and challenges are reviewed and discussed. This detailed literature review limits research results to the following fundamental yet key aspects: gear mesh stiffness evaluation, gearbox damage modeling and fault diagnosis techniques, gearbox transmission path modeling and method validation. In the end, a summary and some research prospects are presented.
Hybrid online protocols for source location privacy in wireless sensor networks
 Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) will form the building blocks of many novel applications such as asset monitoring. These applications will have to guarantee that the location of the occurrence of specific events is kept private from attackers, in what is called the source location privacy (SLP) problem. Fake sources have been used in numerous techniques, however, the solution’s efficiency is typically achieved by fine-tuning parameters at compile time. This is undesirable as WSN conditions may change. In this paper, we first present an SLP algorithm – Dynamic  – that estimates the relevant parameters at runtime and show that it provides a high level of SLP, albeit at the expense of a high number of messages. To address this, we provide a hybrid online algorithm – DynamicSPR  – that uses directed random walks for the fake sources allocation strategy to reduce energy usage. We perform simulations of the various protocols we present and our results show that DynamicSPR provides a similar level of SLP as when parameters are optimised at compile-time, with a lower number of messages sent.
Fault detection and diagnosis methods for photovoltaic systems: A review
 Faults in any components (modules, connection lines, converters, inverters, etc.) of photovoltaic (PV) systems (stand-alone, grid-connected or hybrid PV systems) can seriously affect the efficiency, energy yield as well as the security and reliability of the entire PV plant, if not detected and corrected quickly. In addition, if some faults persist (e.g. arc fault, ground fault and line-to-line fault) they can lead to risk of fire. Fault detection and diagnosis (FDD) methods are indispensable for the system reliability, operation at high efficiency, and safety of the PV plant. In this paper, the types and causes of PV systems (PVS) failures are presented, then different methods proposed in literature for FDD of PVS are reviewed and discussed; particularly faults occurring in PV arrays (PVA). Special attention is paid to methods that can accurately detect, localise and classify possible faults occurring in a PVA. The advantages and limits of FDD methods in terms of feasibility, complexity, cost-effectiveness and generalisation capability for large-scale integration are highlighted. Based on the reviewed papers, challenges and recommendations for future research direction are also provided.
Wavelet-fuzzy based protection scheme of EHV-AC transmission system and efficacy of discrete Fourier transform
 Extra high voltage (EHV) transmission system is the vital links between the generating units and the transmission substations. Transmission of power to the utilities located over long distances through extra high voltage (EHV) transmission is efficient and cost effective. It has the advantage of allowing the bulk amount of energy transmission from generating units to the widely distributed load centers economically. However, detection of faults on EHV transmission system is critical and a challenging task for a large variation in fault operating condition such as high fault resistance involved, inception of fault at the voltage zero crossing situation and the variation in load angles and the system loading levels. Moreover, fault characteristics on EHV transmission lines differ to those on medium and high voltage (MV/HV) due to the presence of larger shunt capacitance, higher voltage level, longer transmission radius and weakly damped decaying dc current caused by the high system reactance to resistance ratio. A number of deterministic and intelligent models based protection schemes of transmission systems are endorsed by several authors where attempts have been made to detect, classify and to locate the fault and the faulted section of the line but they have their own limitations and complexities and the results are not satisfactory. Keeping in view of the aforesaid difficulties, this paper proposes a new approach for the protection of EHV-AC transmission system based on novel application of discrete wavelet transform (DWT) in combination with fuzzy logic using discrete Fourier transform (DFT) at the fundamental frequency phasor. The proposed method retains both fundamental and the high frequency components of the fault current signals to achieve high reliability and selectivity of the protection. The obtained results have been validated with the well established mathematical model of the given EHV-AC transmission system. It is found that the proposed method is accurate, computationally simpler, faster and valid for a wide range of fault operating conditions.
Distance-differential protection of transmission lines connected to wind farms
 Distance relays are often used in the protection of the transmission lines connected to the wind farms. The distance relay using the transmission line impedance measurement identifies the type and location of the fault. However any other factors that cause the failure of the measured impedance, makes the relay detect the fault in incorrect location or do not detect the fault at all. One of these factors is the fault resistance which directly increases the measured impedance by the relay. One of the methods to eliminate relay under-reach effect is using of the trip boundaries. Trip boundaries are changing with wind variation and following with output power of the wind farms. Therefore, trip boundaries should continuously change proportional by the wind speed. In this paper, a method is provided based on the combination of distance and differential protection. In this method, using active power calculation in both ends of the transmission line, fault resistance is calculated and its effects are directly deducted from the calculated impedance by the relay. Therefore, variable trip boundaries are not needed anymore. Also in this method, unlike the technique that the trip boundaries are used, the exact location of fault and its distance from the relay also is calculated. Detailed model of a doubly-fed induction generator (DFIG) driven by a wind turbine is used in the modelling. Results of studies show that the presented method eliminates properly the mal-operation of relays under all different fault resistance conditions.
An integrated technique for fault location and section identification in distribution systems
 This paper proposes an integrated impedance and transient-based formulation for fault location in distribution systems. The technique uses an extended apparent impedance analysis in order to estimate the fault distance, taking into account the unbalanced operation, intermediate loads, laterals, and time-varying load profile of distribution systems. The fault distance information is used in calculating characteristic frequencies associated to each possible fault location. A transient analysis is proposed to evaluate the spectral content of the fault-generated traveling wave, thus identifying its most significant frequency components. Based on the time–frequency correlation it is possible to eliminate the multiple estimates obtained from the impedance-based method, thus resulting in a single fault location. Aiming to verify the application of the proposed methodology, simulations were carried out in the ATP/EMTP Software considering a real distribution feeder with 3472 buses.
Distance protection for transmission lines of DFIG-based wind power integration system
 This paper proposes a distance relay in time domain based on the R-L differential-equation algorithm which is suitable for wind power integration system. However, the conventional R-L differential-equation algorithm cannot detect the correct fault direction if the fault point is very close to the relay location. Therefore, this paper mainly focuses on this problematic conditions and proposes a solution. The instantaneous value equivalent model of DFIG is established and characteristics of the transient electromotive force (EMF) of DFIG after the faults are also analyzed, which shows that the EMF of DFIG has the inertia within a short time after the faults. The memory voltage drop and actual voltage drop on equivalent impedance from relay location to back-side and opposite-side equivalent power sources are introduced in this paper to detect the fault direction. Meanwhile, the characteristics of the memory voltage drop and actual voltage drop under forward and reverse fault conditions are deduced, respectively. With the differentiated correlation coefficient between the memory voltage drop and actual voltage drop under different fault conditions (forward and reverse fault), the fault direction identification criterion is formed accordingly. Finally, an extensive performance evaluation using PSCAD/EMTDC simulation corroborates the effectiveness of the proposed method. Results show that the proposed method can detect the fault direction quickly with high sensitivity during zero-voltage fault conditions.
A high-available and location predictive data gathering scheme with mobile sinks for wireless sensor networks
 The use of mobile sinks in a wireless sensor network can effectively improve network performance. However, if a mobile sink fails, the entire network performance will be seriously affected. In this paper, we propose a high-available and location predictive data gathering scheme with mobile sinks to address the mentioned issue. Namely, sensor nodes can calculate the current location of mobile sinks based on time synchronization, and the network could still work normally if some of the mobile sinks fail. Considering the energy consumption of nodes in different areas, a moving trajectory adjusting strategy is also proposed to balance energy consumption among the nodes in the network. Simulation results show that the proposed data gathering scheme has better performance than the existing schemes.
Experimental and numerical modelling of buried pipelines crossing reverse faults
 Fault rupture is one of the main hazards for continuous buried pipelines and the problem is often investigated experimentally and numerically. While experimental data exists for pipeline crossing strike-slip and normal fault, limited experimental work is available for pipeline crossing reverse faults. This paper presents results from a series of tests investigating the behaviour of continuous buried pipeline subjected to reverse fault motion. A new experimental setup for physical modelling of pipeline crossing reverse fault is developed and described. Scaling laws and non-dimensional groups are derived and subsequently used to analyse the test results. Three-dimensional Finite Element (3D FE) analysis is also carried out using ABAQUS to investigate the pipeline response to reverse faults and to simulate the experiments. Finally, practical implications of the study are discussed.
An algorithm based on traveling waves for transmission line protection in a TCSC environment
 This paper describes a new relaying algorithm for the protection of transmission lines with a Thyristor Controlled Series Compensator (TCSC). The algorithm is based on the pattern of traveling waves generated during a fault event. Several tools like modal analysis, the discrete wavelet transform and a probabilistic neural network trained to work with the energy contained in the wavelet transform coefficients are applied to analyze the high frequency pattern generated during the fault. The proposed algorithm is capable of detecting, locating and classifying faults in a reliable way. The impact of harmonic frequencies generated by the TCSC in the protection algorithm was also analyzed. Several studies were carried out in order to validate and to assess the effect of several fault parameters on the algorithm accuracy. The obtained results show that for a sampling rate of 100 kHz, the algorithm error in calculating the distance to the fault is less than one percent of the total transmission line length. A higher sampling rate improves the algorithm accuracy.
Capacitive discharge based transient analysis with fault detection methodology in DC system
 Multi-terminal DC (MTDC) system based on voltage source converter (VSC) promises a new opportunity for bulk power transmission but it is still met with dire protection issues. This paper presents a transient analysis based on DC-link capacitive discharge which can be leveraged to design a fault detection method. Under certain critical fault conditions, the fault-induced transient can be quite weak for fault detection to work properly. However, the proposed method is minimally influenced by the fault location and resistance. The fault detection time can be kept within 1 ms, which is well-suited to the requirement of the DC circuit breaker. Another important feature of this method is the ability to distinctly recognize the bus fault and external faults, such as AC fault and sudden blocking of gate signal. Besides that, it only requires the local measurement at the terminal to perform necessary computations. The fault detection is tested on a simulation model developed in PSCAD/EMTDC and experimental model, from which different fault types and conditions are investigated. For fair evaluation, the performance of this method on MTDC system is compared with di/dt method.
Fault detection in transmission networks of power systems
 An online fault detection scheme for a sample power system is introduced in this paper. The detection approach is based on the use of a variable structure system called “sliding mode observer”, where information contained in the output measurements is utilized to detect the onset of faults in the transmission network of the sample power system in real time and online. The power system comprises a generating unit connected to an infinite bus through double line transmission network. The common case of a fault occurring on a transmission line is illustrated through simulation studies.
A new impedance-based fault location scheme for overhead unbalanced radial distribution networks
 This paper proposes an analytical impedance-based fault location scheme for distribution systems. The approach is based on voltage and current measurements extracted at only one-end feeding substation. Modal transformation is implemented to decompose the coupled three phase equations due to mutual effects into decoupled ones, and hence directly calculating fault distance in each section without iterative processes. The proposed approach considers various aspects of distribution systems: intermediate loads along the feeder, tapped laterals and sub-laterals at various nodes, time varying loads, and unbalanced operations. The proposed algorithm is extensively investigated on a typical real 11 kV distribution system, South Delta electricity sector, Egypt using MATLAB environment. Different cases are studied considering various loading conditions, varied fault resistance values and different fault types. The achieved results ensure the effectiveness of the proposed fault locator irrespective to fault conditions. Besides, the robustness of the proposed scheme against unbalanced loading, network topology change and non-homogenous network sections is also confirmed.
Post-fault prediction of transient instabilities using stacked sparse autoencoder
 Post-fault prediction of transient stability of power systems has a great impact on the performance of wide area monitoring, protection and control systems. Situational awareness capabilities of a power system are improved by fast detection of instabilities after severe fault occurrences. This allows sufficient time to take necessary corrective control actions. In this paper, a novel method based on stacked sparse autoencoder is proposed to predict the post-fault transient stability status of the power system directly after clearing the fault. A dataset is generated off-line to train a stacked sparse autoencoder, and then the trained stacked sparse autoencoder is used in an online application of predicting any transient instability. The stacked sparse autoencoder is fed by the inputs, which are specific points extracted from the fault-on voltage magnitude measurements collected from the phasor measurement units. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated and compared with the conventional approaches that adopt multilayer perceptrons or post-fault measurements as it is applied to the 127-bus WSCC test system and to the Turkish power system.
Fault diagnosis and on-line monitoring for grid-connected single-phase inverters
 The functionality of power electronic converter systems (PECS) is a cornerstone in various industrial applications. One of the key requirements to ensure reliable functions of PECS is the analysis of their behavior during fault conditions. Characterizing the behavior of PECS during the fault conditions can provide a standpoint for enhancing their control and protection algorithms. Moreover, effective solutions for on-line monitoring for PECS are significant in order to improve the system supervision and management. Consequently, this paper presents fault diagnosis and on-line monitoring schemes for grid-connected single-phase inverters in typical commercial PECS utilized for renewable energy distributed generation. The paper provides fault detection, classification and location of the open circuit (O-C) faults which do not trigger the standard protection systems in the single-phase inverters. The proposed fault diagnostic algorithm is implemented by adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) algorithm and it is based solely on the inverter output current measurements. Therefore, the proposed algorithm requires much fewer inputs compared to the previous research works. Furthermore, the paper implements an on-line monitoring by using a communication interface board which is connected to graphical user interface (GUI) software through transmission control and internet protocols (TCP/IP). The GUI software integrates the on-line monitoring for the electrical signals of the single-phase inverter, as well as incorporates a real time database for these signals.
Methodology for optimizing the capacity and costs of overhead transmission lines by modifying their bundle geometry
 The electrical power systems demand is continuously growing, in such a way that it is necessary to pursue methods to increase the overhead transmission line power capacity for single circuit lines. In this paper, it is proposed a methodology to increase the line energy transport capacity at lower costs. The enhancement is done by modifying the bundle geometry by using a heuristic optimization process divided into two steps. Firstly, a fixed bundle geometry is generated. Secondly, this form is modified seeking the optimization of line energy transmission capacities. During all process, electrical, mechanical and economical analyses are performed. As result, single circuit line geometries with almost 26% higher surge impedance loading than the original, significant costs reduction (50%), moderate bundles size (smaller than 2.5 m), similar electric fields within the conductors of the bundle, smaller right of way, and similar transient response were obtained. Thus, compared with regular single circuit transmission lines, these new transmission lines have a lower overall cost and environmental impact. Finally, a transient analysis of the proposed transmission line is presented.
Generalized formulation of the optimal monitor placement problem for fault location
 This paper extends and generalizes the formulation of the optimal monitor placement problem for fault location for its implementation on large power systems. The proposed formulation, which models the monitor placement as an integer linear programming problem, is applied on several test systems including the IEEE reliability test system (RTS) and the IEEE 118-bus power flow test system. It was found that two monitors are sufficient in order to correctly locate any fault occurring throughout the RTS network. Studies on the 118-bus system revealed that full fault location observability can be achieved with 13 monitors. Simulation results from these studies show the applicability and effectiveness of the proposed modeling approach.
Critical Ground Fault Position
 This chapter presents the analytical procedure that enables a quick and sufficiently accurate evaluation of the significant parts of the ground fault current, for a fault at any of the towers of a transmission line of an arbitrary number of spans. The advantages of the method emanate from the simplicity and accuracy of the formulae for solving uniform ladder circuits of any size and any terminal conditions. The formulae are obtained by applying the “general equations of discrete parameter ladder circuits” on a specific electrical circuit formed by a transmission line ground wire during ground fault. The presented method is suitable for analyses aimed at evaluating the maximum ground fault current part passing through the grounding system of high-voltage generating substations, selecting the ground wire capable of withstanding the fault currents, and predicting the step and touch voltages near transmission towers of single-circuit or double-circuit lines.
Geomechanical analysis of the influence of CO2 injection location on fault stability
 Large amounts of carbon dioxide (CO2) should be injected in deep saline formations to mitigate climate change, implying geomechanical challenges that require further understanding. Pressure build-up induced by CO2 injection will decrease the effective stresses and may affect fault stability. Geomechanical effects of overpressure induced by CO2 injection either in the hanging wall or in the foot wall on fault stability are investigated. CO2 injection in the presence of a low-permeable fault induces pressurization of the storage formation between the injection well and the fault. The low permeability of the fault hinders fluid flow across it and leads to smaller overpressure on the other side of the fault. This variability in the fluid pressure distribution gives rise to differential total stress changes around the fault that reduce its stability. Despite a significant pressure build-up induced by the fault, caprock stability around the injection well is not compromised and thus, CO2 leakage across the caprock is unlikely to happen. The decrease in fault stability is similar regardless of the side of the fault where CO2 is injected. Simulation results show that fault core permeability has a significant effect on fault stability, becoming less affected for high-permeable faults. An appropriate pressure management will allow storing large quantities of CO2 without inducing fault reactivation.
Emergency transmission line switching to suppress power system inter-area oscillation
 Electromechanical oscillation is an inherent property of ac power systems which can occur in the forms of local and inter-area oscillations. The inter-area oscillations may impose a serious threat on the system if they are not controlled properly. Over the past two decades, many methods have been introduced to control and suppress electromechanical oscillations. This paper proposes a new supplementary emergency damping control (SEDC) to suppress inter-area oscillations. In the proposed approach, a system brittleness index (SBI) is introduced which can show system risk for splitting into uncontrolled islands. Following a sever fault, the value and sign of SBI is used as an indicator for activation of SEDC. By using sensitivity analysis of the inter-area mode with respect to line switching, the most effective transmission line switching (TLS) is utilized as an emergency damping control for suppressing inter-area oscillations. For this purpose, by offline studies, a priority list of the effective lines switching is prepared. Then, in the real time operational environment, by using an optimization algorithm, the most effective line switching is implemented as SEDC activation. The optimization algorithm guarantees system operation against any potential violation due to line switching. The proposed SEDC has been demonstrated on IEEE 39-buses system with promising results.
Fault ride through strategy of inverter-interfaced microgrids embedded in distributed network considering fault current management
 This paper presents a fault ride through (FRT) strategy specific for a microgrid (MG) with an inverter-based interface (IB-MG) to maintain power exchange with distribution networks during network faults or disturbances. The fault current injected by IB-MG is controlled by its back-to-back converter interface. Besides guaranteeing the power quality of local loads in MGs during faults, the proposed IB-MG FRT could realize the fault current management (FCM) ability – instead of using a fault current limiter – to maintain the short circuit current level in a dense-load network. As the traditional three-phase FRT techniques conducted on the double synchronous reference frame are no longer applicable on IB-MG FRT, especially for unbalanced faults, a newly developed reference current calculation method conducted on the stationary reference frame is adopted and modified. By changing the six control variables – amplitudes and phases of the three-phase currents – based on the information of the fault voltages and the fault currents from the host network, IB-MG FRT could achieve multiple effects: (1) controlling instantaneous energy flow between the MG and the distribution network; (2) limiting the short-circuit current increase; (3) improving the MG system power quality. The application range of the proposed FRT strategy is also discussed. A 27 kV distributed network connected with a 5 MW IB-MG system was built in the MATLAB/Simulink software environment and the proposed IB-MG FRT strategy was demonstrated under the different unbalanced fault scenarios.
Accurate fault location algorithm for double-circuit series compensated lines using a limited number of two-end synchronized measurements
 This paper presents a new fault location algorithm for double-circuit series compensated lines based on synchronized phasor measurements. Only the sequence current phasors from both ends of the line and the sequence voltage phasors from one local end are taken as input, limiting thus the amount of data needed to be exchanged between the line terminals. In addition, the proposed algorithm does not utilize the model of the series compensation device, eliminating thus the errors resulting from modeling such devices. The new algorithm consists of three steps. In the first step, the fault type and the circuit(s) involved in the fault are determined using a synchrophasor-based fault type selection method. In the next step, the algorithm applies two subroutines designating for locating faults on particular line sections which are defined according to the series compensation placement along the line. In these subroutines, the sequence voltages and currents at the fault point are expressed with respect to the known sequence voltages and currents at the two measuring ends and the distance to fault. Then, using the fault boundary conditions that exist for a given fault type, the fault location is solved by an iterative method. Finally, in the last step a procedure for selecting the valid subroutine is applied. Due to zero sequence mutual coupling, it is not straightforward to express the zero sequence voltage and current at the fault point as a function of the zero sequence voltages and currents at the measuring ends and the distance to fault. To overcome this problem, a modal transformation matrix is introduced to obtain the modal networks, which are decoupled and can be analyzed independently. Based on distributed parameter line model, the proposed algorithm fully considers the effects of shunt capacitances and thus achieves superior locating accuracy, especially for long lines. Mutual coupling between circuits, source impedances and fault resistance does not influence the locating accuracy of the algorithm. Simulation results using ATP-EMTP and MATLAB demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of the proposed algorithm.
Decentralized detection of hybrid faults in mobile sensor nodes
 The widespread use of sensor nodes that are operating under the Internet of Things paradigm motivates researcher to step forward and build reliable systems capable of detecting their faulty nodes. These nodes lead to decrease in the accuracy and functionality of the networks, which finally result in quality degradation of network services. From the temporal point of view, the faults can be either permanent or intermittent. The detection of the latter one is more challenging since the nodes show contradictory behaviors at different times. from the topological point of view, the mobility of the sensor nodes is an intrinsic characteristic in many IoT-based applications, where numerous mobile nodes are managed by static overlay nodes. The dynamics of these network introduces the second challenge in identifying faulty nodes. Several works have been conducted to address the problem, but there is a research gap in identifying hybrid soft sensor faults in the aforementioned networks. The focus of attention in this paper is the detection of soft faults in the sensing unit of the nodes. We devised a new method, called Hybrid Fault Detection in Mobile Sensors, to detect nodes with mixed permanent and intermittent faults. A software debugging approach inspired the main idea. We also applied data mining techniques such as DBSCAN and K-means to validate sensed data, and differentiate the classes of faults, respectively. We evaluated the devised method using the NS2 simulator in various situations. One of the outcomes of the method is that the mobility of the nodes does not reduce the accuracy, in contrast to most of the traditional methods. Moreover, the evaluation demonstrates promising results for the networks with more than 50% faulty nodes. The results also show perfect performance in detecting permanent and intermittent faults in the networks with various percentage of faulty nodes.
Electrical resistivity imaging in transmission between surface and underground tunnel for fault characterization
 Electrical resistivity images supply information on sub-surface structures and are classically performed to characterize faults geometry. Here we use the presence of a tunnel intersecting a regional fault to inject electrical currents between surface and the tunnel to improve the image resolution at depth. We apply an original methodology for defining the inversion parametrization based on pilot points to better deal with the heterogeneous sounding of the medium. An increased region of high spatial resolution is shown by analysis of point spread functions as well as inversion of synthetics. Such evaluations highlight the advantages of using transmission measurements by transferring a few electrodes from the main profile to increase the sounding depth. Based on the resulting image we propose a revised structure for the medium surrounding the Cernon fault supported by geological observations and muon flux measurements.
Influence of fault type on the optimal location of superconducting fault current limiter in electrical power grid
 This paper presents a novel approach to determine the optimal location of a resistive superconducting fault current limiter (SFCL) to improve the transient stability of an electric power grid (EPG). The presented method use the angular separation of the rotors of synchronous machines present in the power system to select the optimal location of SFCL. The selection of this optimal location is coordinated with the corresponding optimal resistive value to improve transient stability in case of short-circuit fault. To obtain a global study on the optimal placement of SFCL in case of fault, various types of short-circuits are considered (single phase grounded fault, two phases grounded fault, etc.). To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method, the IEEE benchmarked four-machine two-area test system is used to carry out several case studies. It is shown that the optimal location of SFCL as well as its optimal resistance value are not the same for each fault studied. A global analysis of EPG stability is presented in the paper to select only one location of the SFCL in the EPG. Results show that the optimal location of SFCL combined with its optimal resistive value reduces the angular separation of the rotors that improves effectively the stability of the EPG for any type of short-circuit.
Transmission line individual phase impedance and related pilot protection
 This paper proposes a kind of new Individual Phase Impedance (IPI) and a novel pilot protection scheme for transmission line based on the IPI. The IPI is calculated by the ratio of the voltage difference of fault-superimposed component to the current difference of fault-superimposed component at both terminals of the protected line. The IPI has accurate mathematical expressions and reasonable physical definitions for various line models. The calculated result of IPI can be used to distinguish the internal faults from the external faults. When the IPI is identical to the value of line positive-sequence impedance, the external fault is detected; otherwise, the internal fault is detected if it differs from that value. The feature of the pilot protection scheme is that the inter-phase coupling relation and the distributed capacitance based on the three-phase line model are directly considered and included in the IPI expression. The novel pilot protection can be used for long distance HV transmission lines with some preeminent performances which are deficiency in the conventional directional comparison pilot protection and current differential protection. The test results obtained by EMTP simulation and from a laboratory model of a simplified real power system have demonstrated that the pilot protection is of high reliability and good adaptability.
Unsymmetrical fault diagnosis in transmission/distribution networks
 In this paper, we design a model-based fault diagnosis scheme capable of real time detection of symmetrical and unsymmetrical faults in the transmission/distribution network of a sample power system comprising a single-machine connected to an infinite bus-bar. A generic state space linear model of the system is first derived, and then a fault diagnosis scheme is designed, based on sliding mode observer (SMO) theory. Accuracy and real-time fault detection capabilities of the proposed fault diagnosis scheme are illustrated through simulation studies.
Fault identification based on artificial immunological systems
 The growing tendency in the number of distributed generation units, directly connected at the distribution level, inevitably brings a number of new challenges. One of the effects is that this new topology may influence the performance of analysis methods and techniques that were based on traditional systems. Fault location methods in distribution systems are examples of how inserting of new generation sources can change the efficiency of these tools. Considering that fault location is a fundamental step to help distribution companies to maintain reliability indices within acceptable margins, this work presents a method applicable to both traditional systems and systems with the presence of distributed generators. In order to achieve this goal, a methodology was developed based on artificial immunological systems technique, which is generally used to complex problems-solving. The methodology evaluated considering several scenarios in the test system and presented a satisfactory performance, being able to estimate characteristics such as location, fault type and fault resistance in an efficient way.
Experimental demonstration of the real-time online fault monitoring technique for chaos-based passive optical networks
 In this paper, a real-time online fault monitoring technique for chaos-based passive optical networks (PONs) is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. The fault monitoring is performed by the chaotic communication signal. The proof-of-concept experiments are demonstrated for two PON structures, i.e., wavelength-division-multiplexing (WDM) PON and Ethernet PON (EPON), respectively. For WDM PON, two monitoring approaches are investigated, one deploying a chaotic optical time domain reflectometry (OTDR) for each transmitter, and the other using only one tunable chaotic OTDR. The experimental results show that the faults at beyond 20 km from the OLT can be detected and located. The spatial resolution of the tunable chaotic OTDR is an order of magnitude of centimeter. Meanwhile, the monitoring process can operate in parallel with the chaotic optical secure communications. The proposed technique has benefits of real-time, online, precise fault location, and simple realization, which will significantly reduce the cost of operation, administration and maintenance (OAM) of PON.
A DSP based frequency domain approach for classification of transmission line faults
 This paper employs a digital signal processing (DSP) based frequency domain approach using wavelet multi-resolution analysis (MRA) to overcome difficulties such as fault inception angle, fault impedance and fault distance associated with conventional time domain approach employing voltage and current based measurements for fault classification in case of digital relaying of transmission line. The frequency domain approach for fault classification algorithm uses wavelet MRA technique to extract the features of the current signals based on harmonics generated at the instant of occurrence of fault due to abrupt change of currents in a three phase transmission line. Since choice of particular wavelet plays a vital role for extracting features of generated harmonics, therefore an attempt has been made in this proposed research to extensively investigate using 16 wavelets to establish the superiority of Db4 wavelet over other standard wavelets for accurate fault classification.
A time domain differential equation approach using distributed parameter line model for transmission line fault location algorithm
 The objective of this work is to develop an algorithm which can provide both a fast relaying time (1/4–1/2 cycles) and an accurate fault location (error within 1% of the total line length). The proposed algorithm combines the strengths of the two distinct approaches, namely, the steady-state phasor approaches (SSPA) and the differential equation approaches (DEA). In the proposed algorithm, a distributed line model is used, which is suitable for the short, the long, the transposed and the untransposed lines. The DEA is used to calculate the fault location and is implemented using the Laplace and the Z-transform techniques. There are several advantages in this proposed algorithm over the existing ones: (a) the variations in the line parameters with the frequency are considered; (b) the fault location estimate is less sensitive to the selection of the sampling rate, the fault inception angle, the signal spectrum and the equivalent sources behind both bus bars; and (c) the relay performance is greatly improved offering both the desired high accuracy and the speed at the same time.
Simulation and experimental analysis of rolling element bearing fault in rotor-bearing-casing system
 The rotor-bearing-casing system is an important structural form in aero-engines, where the main shaft bearing plays an important role in the safe and efficient operation of the whole engine. To study the performance of rolling element bearing faults and their transmission characteristics, a dynamic model of rotor-bearing-casing system with a nonlinear rolling element bearing is established in this paper. The rotor and the casing are modelled by finite element method and the rest parts are modelled by lumped mass method. The casing part is built using a kind of 2-D curved beam element. Single and mixed localized bearing defects are simulated in this dynamic model and also introduced in the rotor-bearing-casing system test system, then vibration signals from the bearing pedestal and the casing are obtained and analyzed. The simulation has a good prediction in components of bearing fault characteristic and modulation frequencies, which could be extracted from the experimental signals. Results are compared between the bearing pedestal and the casing, also between the simulation and the experiment. And sensitivity analysis could be conducted based on fault feature extraction and analysis at different locations on the flexible casing.
Global sensitivity analysis of transmission line fault-locating algorithms using sparse grid regression
 Computation of distance to fault on an electrical transmission line is affected by many sources of uncertainty, including parameter setting errors, measurement errors, as well as absence of information and incomplete modelling of a system under fault condition. In this paper we propose an application of the variance-based global sensitivity measures for evaluation of fault location algorithms. The main goal of the evaluation is to identify factors and their interactions that contribute to the fault locator output variability. This analysis is based on the results of Sparse Grid Regression. The method compiles the Functional ANOVA model to represent fault locator output as a function of uncertain factors. The ANOVA model provides a tool for interpretation and sensitivity analysis. In practice, such analysis can help in functional performance tests, especially in: selection of the optimal fault location algorithm (device) for a specific application, calibration process and building confidence in a fault location function result. The paper concludes with an application example which demonstrates use of the proposed methodology in testing and comparing some commonly used fault location algorithms. This example is also used to demonstrate numerical efficiency for this type of application of the proposed Sparse Grid Regression method in comparison to the Quasi-Monte Carlo approach.
A new technique, based on voltages, for fault location on three-terminal transmission lines
 A new method for fault location on three-terminal transmission lines is described in this paper. Through this method, the faulty line branch is determined and the fault point located in a reliable and simple manner. For this, to reduce mathematical errors, a complete line model including the various characteristics of the network is used and a simple calculation method is applied, based on a new concept referred to as the ‘branch factor’. The method only uses the main components (50/60 Hz) of fault and prefault voltage values measured at the three terminals of the transmission line. Moreover, this method is independent of the fault and prefault current, type of fault and fault resistance, as well as the synchronization of recording devices located at the three terminals of the transmission line, and the prefault conditions. This paper also reviews the sensitivity of this method to errors in input data.
Investigation of the Effect of Series Compensation on Fault Location for EHV Transmission Lines
 This paper describes an accurate fault location algorithms based on two end measurements of voltage and current phasors for EHV transmission lines. The algorithm is implemented for plain, shunt and series compensated, transposed and untransposed transmission lines. The algorithm is free of source impedance variations and includes the effect of shunt capacitance. The effect on the accuracy of the algorithm due to point on wave of fault initiation, fault location on the line, fault type, variations of the fault resistance and errors due to signal processing, is investigated. The algorithm is found to be very accurate for plain and shunt compensated lines but needs further improvements to cater for series compensated lines.
New method of fault location on double-circuit two-terminal transmission lines
 A new method to locate faults on double-circuit transmission lines is described in this paper. This method only uses the fundamental components (50/60 Hz) of fault and prefault currents, measured at one of the ends of the line. From these measured values a function is established from which the point at which a fault occurred is determined. The definition of a new concept called the ‘distance factor’ will allow a method to be developed which is independent of fault resistance, type of fault, mutual coupling between the two circuits and initial prefault conditions. The accuracy of this method has been assessed by using a fault simulation software program. In the first stage the accuracy of the method was determined on the basis of accurate input data. In the second stage the sensitivity of the method was analyzed from errors in the input data.
Fault tolerance in cloud computing environment: A systematic survey
 Fault tolerance is among the most imperative issues in cloud to deliver reliable services. It is difficult to implement due to dynamic service infrastructure, complex configurations and various interdependencies existing in cloud. Extensive research efforts are consistently being made to implement the fault tolerance in cloud. Implementation of a fault tolerance policy in cloud not only needs specific knowledge of its application domain, but a comprehensive analysis of the background and various prevalent techniques also. Some recent surveys try to assimilate the various fault tolerance architectures and approaches proposed for cloud environment but seem to be limited on some accounts. This paper gives a systematic and comprehensive elucidation of different fault types, their causes and various fault tolerance approaches used in cloud. The paper presents a broad survey of various fault tolerance frameworks in the context of their basic approaches, fault applicability, and other key features. A comparative analysis of the surveyed frameworks is also included in the paper. For the first time, on the basis of an analysis of various fault tolerance frameworks cited in the present paper as well as included in the recently published prime surveys, a quantified view on their applicability is presented. It is observed that primarily the checkpoint-restart and replication oriented fault tolerance techniques are used to target the crash faults in cloud.
Adaptive distance protection of transmission line in presence of SVC
 In this paper, the analytical and simulation results of the application of adaptive distance protection scheme for the transmission line incorporating Static Var Compensator (SVC) connected at the mid-point is presented. The mal-operation of the distance protection for the transmission line with SVC at various locations are studied. The simulation results show the under-reaching and over-reaching is more severe with SVC at mid-point of the transmission line. To mitigate the mal-operation of the distance protection, the adaptive scheme is presented based on recursive simulation study. The simulation result with adaptive scheme is outperformed as compared with the conventional scheme. Electro-magnetic Transient Program (EMTP) simulations on two machine system is used to substantiate the claim.
Fault mode operation strategies for dual H-bridge current flow controller in meshed HVDC grid
 Current flow controllers (CFCs) can remove grid bottlenecks or extend grid operation area by changing amount of power flowing through DC transmission lines. This study focuses on behavior of interline H-bridge CFC in a DC grid in fault condition. In addition to the CFC circuit level fault studies, non-linear and linearized simplified models are developed for system level analysis. The analysis and fault study shows that the interline H-bridge CFC cannot survive during DC transmission line and bus faults due to an overvoltage occurring in its capacitor. Further investigation figures out that this overvoltage cannot be avoided even in presence of fast HVDC circuit breakers. Hence, an improved control system together with circuit level modifications are proposed to improve the CFC post-fault operation and to retain its components from possible damages.
Intelligent approaches using support vector machine and extreme learning machine for transmission line protection
 This paper proposes two approaches based on wavelet transform-support vector machine (WT-SVM) and wavelet transform-extreme learning machine (WT-ELM) for transmission line protection. These methods uses fault current samples for half cycle from the inception of fault. The features of the line currents are extracted by first level decomposition of the current samples using discrete wavelet transform (DWT) and extracted features are applied as inputs to SVM and ELM for faulted phase detection, fault classification, location and discrimination between fault and switching transient condition. The feasibility of the proposed methods have been tested on a 240-kV, 225-km transmission line for all the 10 types of fault using MATLAB Simulink. Upon testing on 9600 fault cases with varying fault resistance, fault inception angle, fault distance, pre-fault power level, and source impedances, the performance of the proposed methods are quite promising. The performance of the proposed methods is compared in terms of classification accuracy and fault location error. The results indicate that SVM based approach is accurate compared to ELM based approach for fault classification. For fault location, the maximum error is less with SVM than ELM and the mean error of SVM is slightly higher than ELM.
Differential relaying scheme for tapped transmission line connecting UPFC and wind farm
 This paper presents a differential relaying scheme for a tapped transmission line in presence of Unified Power Flow Controller (UPFC) and wind-farm together. The process starts at retrieving the fault current signal at the respective busses connecting the lines involving fault and pre-processing it using multi-resolution based Wavelet transform to derive third level approximate coefficients (CA3). Further the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) is used to compute the RMS value of the signal from the reconstructed signals expressed in terms of Wavelet approximate coefficients. Once the RMS value of the signal is estimated the operating (tripping) and restraining signals are computed for fault detection and classification in transmission lines including UPFC and wind-farm. The proposed scheme has been extensively tested on faulted conditions with wide variations in operating parameters and the test results indicate that it can reliably detect and classify faults including the ability to discriminate internal faults from external faults in transmission lines with a response time of less than two cycles from fault inception.
On-line Monitoring System Based on Open Source Platform for Photovoltaic Array
 To evaluate the performance of photovoltaic (PV) power plants, it is necessary to effectively monitor PV power plants. An on-line monitoring system based on open-source platform is presented for monitoring and managing the PV power plant effectively and economically. The proposed monitoring system consists of data acquisition, transmission part, data gateway, and on-line monitoring center. A PV diagnosis approach based on FFA-SVM for array fault is implemented in the gateway. The on-line monitoring center based on the platform ubidots is designed for displaying the data and monitoring PV arrays. Experiment results show that the system can realize abundant data visualization and accurate PV fault diagnosis.
A wavelet multiresolution analysis for location of faults on transmission lines
 Faults on EHV lines are quite common. They cause disruption in power supply. Accurate location of faults will result in faster maintenance and restoration of supply. This paper presents a new method for the location of faults based on wavelet multiresolution analysis (MRA). EMTP (Microtran) is employed to generate the time domain input signal. Daubechies eight (D-8) wavelet transforms of the three phase currents on transmission lines from both the ends are used. The effects of fault inception angle and fault impedance are examined. Extensive simulation work has been carried out and results indicate that the proposed method is very effective in locating the fault with a high accuracy.
Internal converter- and DC-fault handling for a single point grounded bipolar MMC-HVDC system
 In order to address challenges caused by an increasing need for power transmission, embedded bipolar HVDC links utilizing Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC-HVDC) technology present a preferred solution as several operational and dynamic advantages compared to conventional ac grid enforcement are provided. In this paper, an approach to quickly detect and handle internal as well as dc-side faults in a full-bridge bipolar MMC-HVDC link is presented. Due to non-technical reasons and environmental constraints, the system is comprised of mixed overheadline-cable (OHL-cable) transmission and single point solid grounding with dedicated metallic return (DMR). To validate and evaluate the proposed concept, detailed electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are provided. These highlight effects of mixed transmission system design on transient voltage and current stresses as well as on converter-internal quantities.
A novel wavelet transform aided neural network based transmission line fault analysis method
 In the present scenario of market driven business, power supply has become more like a commodity. Reliable and quality power need to be ensured to meet customer requirements. In such a situation, it is extremely important that transmission line faults be identified accurately, reliably and in quick time. Advanced signal processing tools such as discrete wavelet transform (DWT) can be used very effectively for parameterisation and characterization of the fault signals. On the other hand, properly configured neural network (NN) can be utilized for classification of the faults based on the DWT signal. The present contribution uses electromagnetic transient program (EMTP) for modeling of a real transmission system and MATLAB for DWT and NN. Various types of faults have been simulated at different locations along the transmission line and an attempt has been made to correctly identify and locate the fault.
Optimizing the Transmission Line Cost of a Fault Tolerance Network to Promote Green Power Usage
 Green power is clean without pollution, such as solar and wind power. It has become a resolution to supplement the deficiency of today's high cost/danger energy resources. A challenge is to integrate these distributed resources into the power grid. The high cost and voltage drop of running long transmission lines motivate the way to minimize the length by serializing their connections to load centers. This introduces a risk that the loss of a transmission line section can disconnect multiple green power resources. Our previous study proposed an idea of a fault tolerance network, in which every power resource has at least two independent connections to the load centers. Preliminary studies showed that fault tolerance can be achieved with reasonable extra transmission line expenses. The objective of this paper is to develop an artificial intelligence algorithm to identify possible Steiner points into the network. The new network intends to further reduce the cost without compromising the reliability.
Ambiguity Cancellation for Wire Fault Location based on Cable Life Profile
 Although reflectometry is an efficient method to diagnose simple topologies (such as transmission line, Y shape network), it remains limited in the case of complex branched networks due to multipath fading of the test signal during its propagation. Generally, the knowledge of the environment in which the cable operates gives an additional idea about the fault location. The current paper proposes to introduce the cable life profile (such as environmental stress, type, age, noise, etc.) to detect and cancel diagnosis ambiguities and provide a precise location of the fault. Bayesian Network (BN) seems to be a suitable solution to offer a coherent representation of knowledge domain (reflectometry method, cable characteristics and network heterogeneity) under uncertainties (fault(s) location, systems reliability and measurement precision). In this work, a two-stages BN model for diagnosis using reflectometry in branched networks is proposed and simulation results are discussed.
First-zone distance relaying algorithm of parallel transmission lines for single-phase to ground faults
 A novel zone-one distance relaying algorithm for single phase to ground faults on parallel lines is proposed. The proposed algorithm only requires sampled current and voltage values at one end of the protected line to calculate the fault impedance. The adjacent circuit zero-sequence current can be calculated from the protected circuit zero-sequence current and without cross-connection. The algorithm can overcome the issues of overreach and under-reach. The study in this paper shows that the new algorithm has higher reliability than that of conventional distance relays with and without cross-connected zero-sequence current compensation. Therefore, the algorithm optimizes the performance of zone-one distance relaying for parallel transmission lines. The results are verified by the simulations using PSCAD software.
Improved fault location algorithm for radial distribution systems with discrete and continuous wavelet analysis
 This paper presents a novel wavelet based approach for fault location using voltage transient waveforms in power distribution systems. The proposed method includes two main stages. Firstly, the approximate location of the fault or fault section is determined using a new algorithm with discrete wavelet transform. The difference between arriving times of transient components in different measurement units is used for this purpose. The accurate location of the fault is determined in the second stage. Depending on the determined fault section, the difference between arriving times of transient components in different measurement units or the frequency content of the voltage transients are used. The time difference and frequency content are calculated using discrete and continuous wavelet transform (DWT and CWT) respectively. The proposed technique is implemented on an unbalanced 34 bus distribution system with two distributed generation units which is simulated in ATP–EMTP. The comparison of the results of the proposed method with previous works verifies its better accuracy and more robustness to fault conditions including fault inception angle and fault resistance.
A real time fault analysis tool for monitoring operation of transmission line protective relay
 This paper proposes an integrated real time fault analysis tool for transmission line. The two primary techniques used in the fault analysis tool, fuzzy adaptive resonance theory (ART) neural network and synchronized sampling, can offer accurate fault detection, classification, internal/external fault differentiation, and fault location. The paper makes several extensions of the two techniques so that they can fit well in the realistic situations. The hardware configuration and software implementation are proposed in the paper. A comprehensive evaluation study is implemented to compare the proposed fault analysis tool with the traditional distance relay. Simulation results indicate that the integration exemplifies the advantages of both techniques and that the integrated solution has much better performance in different system conditions compared to distance relay. Both dependability and security of transmission line protection system are improved by using the proposed tool.
Fault diagnosis system for tapped power transmission lines
 This paper presents a design for a fault diagnosis system (FDS) for tapped HV/EHV power transmission lines. These lines have two different protection zones. The proposed approach reduces the cost and the complexity of the FDS for these types of lines. The FDS consists basically of fifteen artificial neural networks (ANNs). The FDS basic objectives are mainly: (1) the detection of the system fault; (2) the localization of the faulted zone; (3) the classification of the fault type; and finally (4) the identification of the faulted phase. This FDS is structured in a three hierarchical levels. In the first level, a preprocessing unit to the input data is performed. An ANN, in the second level, is designed in order to detect and zone localize the line faults. In the third level, two zone diagnosis systems (ZDS) are designed. Each ZDS is dedicated to one zone and consists of seven parallel-cascaded ANN's. Four-parallel ANN's are designed in order to achieve the fault type classification. While, the other three cascaded ANN's are designed mainly for the selection of the faulted phase. A smoothing unit is also configured to smooth out the output response of the proposed FDS. The proposed FDS is designed and evaluated using the local measurements of the three-phase voltage and current samples acquired at only one side. The sampling rate was taken 16 samples per cycle of the power frequency. Data window of 4 samples was utilized. These samples were generated using the EMTP simulation program, applied to the High-Dam/Cairo 500 kV tapped transmission line. All possible shunt fault types were considered. The effect of fault location and fault incipience time were also included. Moreover, the effect of load and capacitor switchings on the FDS performance was investigated. Testing results have proved the capability as well as the effectiveness of the proposed FDS.
An overview of modeling the stacking faults in lightweight and high-entropy alloys: Theory and application
 Modeling stacking faults in lightweight and medium- to high-entropy alloys is an exciting and fast developing field. Stacking faults and associated defects play a key role in understanding and modeling mechanical properties of alloys. We review the recent the studies of stacking faults, dislocations and twins in the novel alloys. Although this Review is focused on the theories and their applications in modeling stacking faults, relevant experimental progresses are also discussed. The Review starts with a brief introduction for the significance of stacking faults. The theoretical methods to calculate (generalized) stacking faults are then summarized and new developments of the methods are formulated. In the framework of thermodynamics, we discuss the factors that affect stacking fault energies with latest examples. Important applications of the (generalized) stacking fault method in lightweight and high-entropy alloys are demonstrated in details with research by us and other researchers. Last but not least, some generalizations of the generalized stacking fault method are discussed, among which is our new method to search possible twin boundaries. We conclude that many of these methods developed for the conventional alloys are ready for future applications in the medium- and high-entropy alloys as well.
Effects of VSC based HVDC system on distance protection of transmission lines
 The priority to reactive power contribution from the Voltage Source Converter (VSC) based High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) connection to support the grid during faults as suggested by the modern Network Code (NC) for HVDC affects the distance protection of transmission lines. Moreover, suppressing the negative sequence current during an unbalanced condition also interferes with the proper operation of the distance relays. This is because the current contribution from the converter is limited in magnitude and modified in the waveform in order to protect the power electronic devices during the fault in comparison to the synchronous generator fault current characteristics. This paper discusses the cause as well as the severity of the problems faced by the distance protection of transmission lines connected to the VSC based HVDC system by analyzing the apparent impedance analytically and in the simulation. The response of the relay to balanced and unbalanced faults lying on transmission lines is investigated. It is shown that the VSC limited reactive support and suppressed negative sequence current affect fault detection, forcing the relay to malfunction. The results of this paper can be used as a reference for understanding the effects of VSC-HVDC system on the operation of the distance protection during faults.
Fault-tolerant location of transient voltage disturbance source for DG integrated smart grid
 In this paper, a new fault-tolerant approach based on improved particle swarm optimization (IPSO) is proposed to automatically locate the transient voltage disturbance source (TVDS) for smart grid with distributed generation (DG) integration. We first analyze the influence of the DG integration on the TVDS direction-judgments. Two new credibility indexes, the monitoring-credibility and the partial-credibility, are defined to measure the reliability of direction-judgment result at each power quality monitor (PQM) with consideration of multiple factors, including DG integration, disturbance intensity and fluctuation characteristic. By using these credibility indexes and a newly defined search space, a heuristic searching approach, called IPSO, is then proposed to obtain the optimal solution of the TVDS location. Simulation study is carried out on the IEEE 34 node test feeder, and the results demonstrate that the proposed approach has significantly improved fault-tolerant capability with satisfatory convergence speed.
Fault location based on single terminal travelling wave analysis in radial distribution network
 Fault location remains a challenging problem in order to restore power supply rapidly. In this paper, a novel single-terminal traveling wave fault location procedure is proposed in a radial distribution network. Firstly, the propagating speed of zero mode traveling wave is determined by BP neutral network method. Then the preliminary estimation of fault distance is calculated based on the difference of velocities by discriminating the accurate timestamps of initial zero and aerial mode wave fronts. With this preliminary fault distance, the exact arrival timestamps of reflected wave fronts from fault position and far terminal end can be successful yielded. Finally, depended on mathematical relation of selected pairs-timestamps, the fault distance can be calculated precisely. Simulations have performed in PSCAD/EMTDC and the results show the accuracy and validity of procedures proposed above.
A survey of fault tolerance in cloud computing
 Cloud computing has brought about a transformation in the delivery model of information technology from a product to a service. It has enabled the availability of various software, platforms and infrastructural resources as scalable services on demand over the internet. However, the performance of cloud computing services is hampered due to their inherent vulnerability to failures owing to the scale at which they operate. It is possible to utilize cloud computing services to their maximum potential only if the performance related issues of reliability, availability, and throughput are handled effectively by cloud service providers. Therefore, fault tolerance becomes a critical requirement for achieving high performance in cloud computing. This paper presents a comprehensive overview of fault tolerance-related issues in cloud computing; emphasizing upon the significant concepts, architectural details, and the state-of-art techniques and methods. The objective is to provide insights into the existing fault tolerance approaches as well as challenges yet required to be overcome. The survey enumerates a few promising techniques that may be used for efficient solutions and also, identifies important research directions in this area.
A new method for non-unit protection of power transmission lines based on fault resistance and fault angle reduction
 In the paper, a new non-unit transient protection method suitable for single-phase faults of EHV power transmission lines was proposed based on the analysis of the propagation characteristics induced by fault transient current, the transition resistance and the fault angle on corresponding energy values of high-frequency transient current in extra high voltage (EHV) network. In the procedure, the transient current energy values from both sides of the bus were primarily normalized on the basis of transition resistance and fault angle, and then the characteristic value with functions of direction judge and value comparison was obtained by calculating their difference. By utilizing the characteristic value, the methodology came into being, by which the impacts of both transition resistance and fault angle were eliminated. The overall design has a high reliability level and owns twice the scope of the conventional protection. Simulations were performed and analyzed upon a three-phase 500 kV power system by utilizing ATP/EMTP, with various kinds of typical faults being taken into account. Plenty of results verify the feasibility of the algorithm for ultra-high speed protection of EHV power transmission lines.
Smart wireless sensor networks for online faults diagnosis in induction machine
 Online induction machine faults diagnosis is a concern to guarantee the overall production process efficiency. Nowadays, the industry demands the integration of smart wireless sensors networks (WSN) to improve the fault detection in order to reduce cost, maintenance and power consumption. Induction motors can develop one or more faults at the same time that can produce sever damages. The origin of most recurrent faults in rotary machines is in the components: stator, rotor, bearing and others. This work presents a novel methodology for the online faults diagnosis in induction motors. This technique uses the smart WSN to obtain the machine condition based on the motor stator current analysis. The implementation of the proposed smart sensor methodology allows the system to perform online fault detection in a fully automated way. Simulation results presented show the efficiency of the proposed method to detect simple and multiple faults in induction machine. It provides detailed analysis to address challenges in designing and deploying WSNs in industrial environments, and its reliability.
A new spectral domain approach to the distance protection, fault location and arcing faults recognition on transmission lines
 In this paper, a novel two-stage numerical algorithm devoted to fault distance calculation and arcing faults recognition is presented. The first algorithm stage serves for the fault distance calculation. Fault distance is calculated from the fundamental frequency phase voltages and currents phasors, utilizing the positive- and zero-sequence impedance of the line as an input parameter. The second algorithm stage serves for the arc-voltage amplitude calculation. It utilizes the fault distance obtained from the first algorithm stage and the third harmonics of the terminal phase voltages and line currents phasors as input parameters. From the calculated value of arc-voltage amplitude it can be concluded if the fault is transient arcing fault or permanent arcless fault. The phasors needed for algorithm development are calculated by using Discrete Fourier Technique. In the paper the solution for the most frequent phase-to-ground faults is given. The results of algorithm testing through computer simulation and real field record are given.
Traveling wave protection based on asynchronously sampled time difference of arrival of modulus traveling waves in per unit line length
 Traditional traveling wave protection schemes are susceptible to many factors such as network topology change, environment interference and inaccurate identification of wave fronts, which may lead to mal-operation of protection. In addition, most traveling wave protection schemes need accurate synchronous measurement which adds to the implementation cost. This paper proposes a traveling wave protection for high voltage power grids based on the time difference of arrival (TDOA) of zero-mode and aerial-mode traveling wave. First, the time difference of arrival of the modulus voltage traveling waves (MVTWs) asynchronously sampled at each bus is captured. With the minimum TDOA, the key bus and fault area can be firstly determined. Then, the TDOA of the line in per unit length is defined as the ratio between the difference of the TDOAs at both terminal buses and line length. Finally, as for one case that key bus connects with no other bus, the line corresponding to the minimum TDOA of all the lines in the fault area is determined as the fault line. As for the other case, the calculated line length should be compared with the actual one to detect the fault line. PSCAD/EMTDC is used to conduct fault simulations and the calculation results verify that the proposed scheme is not affected by fault resistances, inception angles and distances. In addition, the operation time of the scheme does not exceed 20 ms, which makes it applicable for actual power grid protection.
High impedance fault detection: A review
 Protection from the high impedance fault (HIF) has been one of the biggest challenges in the power distribution network. HIF typically occurs when the conductors in distribution network break and touch the ground surface; or lean and touch a tree branch. This fault, with current magnitude close to the load current level, is not detectable by over-current relays. This paper aims to review the literature related to the HIF phenomenon. In this work, the HIF detection techniques are categorized, evaluated, and compared with one another. Furthermore, the existing HIF models and HIF location techniques are reviewed. Finally, the shortcoming of the existing perspective toward the HIF phenomenon and the possible road to the future for HIF detection is discussed.
Wavelet entropy based algorithm for fault detection and classification in FACTS compensated transmission line
 Distance protection of transmission lines including advanced flexible AC transmission system (FACTS) devices has been a very challenging task. FACTS devices of interest in this paper are static synchronous series compensators (SSSC) and unified power flow controller (UPFC). In this paper, a new algorithm is proposed to detect and classify the fault and identify the fault position in a transmission line with respect to a FACTS device placed in the midpoint of the transmission line. Discrete wavelet transformation and wavelet entropy calculations are used to analyze during fault current and voltage signals of the compensated transmission line. The proposed algorithm is very simple and accurate in fault detection and classification. A variety of fault cases and simulation results are introduced to show the effectiveness of such algorithm.
Time domain complete protection scheme for parallel transmission lines
 In this paper, time domain relaying schemes for complete protection of parallel transmission lines using wavelet and artificial neural network (ANN) are presented. Four different ANN networks are designed for detection of the fault, fault section identification, classification of fault and location of fault in time domain. The 3rd level approximate discrete wavelet transform (DWT) coefficients of signals of one end are used as input to ANN network. Proposed method is tested with varying fault location, inception angle, fault type and fault resistance. The test results show that the fault is detected and located within 5 ms time accurately. This scheme offers primary protection as well as backup protection to the lines.
Research on Early Warning Method of Overhead Transmission Line Damage Caused by Typhoon Disaster
 A method for early warning of overhead transmission line damage in electric power system caused by typhoon disaster is proposed. Firstly, the required early warning area is divided into grids according to the corresponding typhoon prediction information. Secondly, the probability distribution functions of design wind load and actual wind load are fitted by normal distribution and extremeⅠdistribution function respectively, and the damage probability of overhead transmission line is calculated based on the stress intensity interference model. Thirdly,the interval of warning time is chosen referring to the typhoon detective line of 24 and 48 h, and the reasonable warning output is given. Finally, an example is provided using the data from typhoon "Mujigae" in 2015 and Guangdong province to validate the effectiveness and scientificity of the method proposed in this paper.
Stochastic modeling of power system faults
 Correct modeling of power system faults is a key issue in a diversity of power system studies, such as in network planning, equipment specification and protection systems coordination. The present paper addresses the probabilistic description of faults, based on available data collected by transmission system operators for different voltage levels. Fault rate and individual fault characteristics are stochastically modeled, namely fault location, type and resistance. A fault resistance model is suggested, based on Weibull distribution, which parameters are set per voltage level. The proposed fault description is a useful tool for power system planning and design, when a stochastic approach of the power system faults characteristics is adopted. Time series of fault input data and simulation results are presented in a common format, so to allow using the same statistical tools as used in power system monitoring and field data reporting. The model is able to reproduce atypical years, as happen in real transmission networks. The developed fault model is used to generate stochastic short-circuit events, which are then used for short-circuit current computation. The methodology is applied to the IEEE RTS and simulation results are shown for the probability of amplitude and time constant values. These results are prone to be used to specify network circuit breakers and current transformers using a probabilistic approach.
New ANN method for multi-terminal HVDC protection relaying
 This paper proposes a comprehensive novel multi-terminal HVDC protection scheme based on artificial neural network (ANN) and high frequency components detected from fault current signals only. The method is shown to accurately detect, classify and locate overhead line faults. Unlike existing travelling wave based methods which must capture the initial wavefront and require high sampling rates, the new approach is more robust since it gives accurate fault detection and fault location over a range of windowed post-fault signals. Furthermore, the proposed method is fault resistance independent meaning even a very high fault impedance has no effect on accurate fault location. A three-terminal VSC-HVDC system is modelled in PSCAD/EMTDC, which is used for obtaining the fault current data for transmission line terminals. The method is verified by studying different cases with a range of fault resistances in various fault locations, and in addition, external faults. The results show that the proposed method gives fast (<5 ms) and reliable (100%) fault detection and classification and accurate location (<1.16%) for DC line faults.
A non-unit line protection scheme for MMC-based multi-terminal HVDC grid
 Multi-terminal flexible HVDC grids are required due to the high penetration of renewable energy. However, they are vulnerable to dc faults. To ensure their high reliability and continuous operation, fast and selective protection schemes are indispensable. This paper analyses the transient voltages in the case of dc line faults in modular multilevel converter (MMC)-based HVDC grid. Then, making use of the boundary effect of current-limiting reactors, a fast non-unit dc line protection scheme based on fault transient voltage is proposed. In addition, the faulty pole identification criterion is constructed based on fault currents. A MMC-based four-terminal HVDC grid is modelled using PSCAD/EMTDC, and extensive simulations are conducted to validate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. Simulation results show that the proposed protection method not only can detect faults rapidly and accurately, but is also effective in detecting large-resistance faults.
Wide area backup protection algorithm for transmission lines based on fault component complex power
 In this paper a new wide area backup protection algorithm based on the fault component complex power is proposed to overcome the problem of maloperation of conventional backup protection in highly stressed conditions of power system operation. Firstly, suspected faulty lines are detected using measured values of fault component voltages known as faulted area identification (FAI) criteria. Then, the fault component voltages and currents provided by phasor measurement units (PMUs) are applied to calculate the injected complex power to both terminals of the suspected faulty lines. The ratio between sum and difference of injected complex power to the both terminals of the suspected faulty lines is used as faulted line identification (FLI) criteria. The simulation studies performed on the IEEE 10 generator 39-bus system verify effectiveness of the proposed algorithm under various conditions and fault types.
Resistance varying characteristics of DC superconducting fault current limiter in MTDC system
 Recent years, voltage source converter-based multi-terminal high voltage DC power transmission (MTDC) is widely developed in the world. However, it is difficult for the existing DC breaker to cut off the fault transmission line with large short-circuit fault current. Then, it would be helpful to develop DC fault current limiter for the MTDC system. In this paper, DC superconducting fault current limiter (DCSFCL) is proposed to limit fault current. In order to study the resistance-time performance of the DCSFCL under the rapid change of fault current, a simulation model of Zhoushan MTDC system with DCSFCL is established, and the current-limiting performance of the DCSFCL at different location of the grid is studied. The simulation results show that DCSFCL can effectively limit short-circuit current and improve the operation reliability of MTDC system.
Indoor localization strategy based on fault-tolerant area division for shipboard surveillance
 Localization based on wireless sensor networks has been shown to be a promising application in ships. Although a considerable number of algorithms have been designed for low-overhead and high-accuracy localization, some problems have been ignored, such as interference in the shipboard environment and the method of using anchor-deploying. In this paper, we present a method for range-free localization called fault-tolerant area division (FAD) to deploy and divide the area in which precise indoor localization is required. Despite the limitations with respect to shipboard environmental interference, sensing irregularity, received signal strength variation, and other unavoidable factors, FAD has been shown to be reliable by improving the fault-tolerant mechanism. In addition, to address the scheme of anchor-node placement, which complicates the localization performance, this paper presents a new deployment strategy for the anchor nodes using optimization methods. This paper presents and analyzes an enhancement method using a series of simulations and real-world ship experiments. The result shows that a well-organized deployment and a fault-tolerant mechanism can make such localization method more reliable and compatible.
A comprehensive framework for seismic risk assessment of urban water transmission networks
 Earthquakes are natural disasters which human beings cannot control, causing significant damage to the economy and society as a whole. In particular, earthquakes affect not only buildings but also lifeline structures such as water distribution, electric power, transportation, and telecommunication networks. The interruption of these networks is critical because it can directly damage the facilities and, at the same time, cause long-term loss of the overall system for society. In recent years, there has been increasing interest in the uncertainties of ground motion, deterioration of pipelines, and interdependency of lifelines. Therefore, it is essential to predict the damage through possible earthquake scenarios and accounting for factors affecting lifeline structures. This study proposes a comprehensive framework to quantify the impact of earthquakes on the connectivity of urban water transmissions. The framework proposes the following steps to predict damage from earthquakes: (1) estimate the ground motion considering the spatial correlation, (2) propose a modified failure probability of buried pipelines considering deterioration, and (3) evaluate the seismic fragility curves of network components and the interdependency among water treatment plants, pumping plants, and substations. For numerical simulations, an actual water network system in South Korea was constructed using graph theory, and the magnitudes and locations of the epicenters were determined based on historical earthquake data. Finally, the reliability performance indicators (e.g., connectivity loss and serviceability ratio) were measured when earthquakes of various magnitudes occurred in the urban area. This framework will enable the prediction of damage from earthquakes and enhance decision making to minimize the extent of damage.
Fault management: analysis of fault location algorithm in optical network
 This article proposes a new fault location mechanism in optical network. In this mechanism, a network alarm packet format with time-stamp is introduced to implement fast restoration. In locating the fault, the existing schemes are usually complex and inaccessible when solving the multifailure location problem. For multifailures, the proposed mechanism using time-stamps is more efficient in locating the fault and decreasing computational complexity.
Transmission line protection systems with aided communication channels—Part I: Performance analysis methodology
 A performance analysis methodology for transmission line primary protection systems is presented, based on a probabilistic approach to protection system successful operation. The protection system operation is represented by reliability graphs, and a probabilistic model of the distance protection is considered. The system successful operation is described by tie-sets, and solutions are obtained from Monte Carlo simulation. The system elements are characterized by the reliability factors: equipment failure rate and time to repair. The system performance is assessed by the availability index. The developed methodology is applied to a transmission line protection scheme with one aided communication channel. Results allow quantifying the influence of the fault location on the protection system performance. Results also show the influence of the equipment failure rate on the system performance. The developed methodology proves to be adequate to quantify the benefits of using communication channels in transmission line protection. Furthermore it is adequate to assess different protection system architectures. A comparative performance analysis, considering four different transmission line protection schemes, can be found in the Part II paper.
Arcing fault identification using combined Gabor Transform-neural network for transmission lines
 This paper presents an intelligent identification scheme for transient faults in transmission systems using Gabor Transform (GT) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN). The successful discrimination between arcing and permanent faults can be then utilized for realize a reliable operation of autoreclosure systems. The proposed algorithm employs the GT as a signal processing technique and the ANN for pattern recognition and classification processes. The use of GT is motivated by the fact that the Gabor elementary functions have distinctive an optimal localization property in the joint time and frequency domains, which leads to an optimal feature extraction. The extracted GT coefficients are used as the inputs to a three layer feedforward ANN. The generalization capabilities of neural networks together with the GT are expected to discriminate between arcing and permanent fault cases successfully. The fault behavior is simulated by ATP/EMTP where the arc model is realized using universal arc representation. Finally, the possibility of hardware implementation of the proposed scheme is visualized in order to verify its practicality and suitability for real field operation. The results show that combining of GT along with ANNs achieves an excellent performance to discriminate between arcing and permanent faults with eliminating the impacts of fault resistance, fault location and fault inception angle as compared with conventional discriminators.
Ultra-high-speed protection of transmission lines using traveling wave theory
 A new traveling-wave-based algorithm is proposed in this paper for the protection of transmission lines. In the proposed algorithm, Teager energy operator is used to extract traveling waves. Teager energy operator has a high computational efficiency and extracts traveling waves with high resolution. The amplitude of the first detected traveling wave as well as that of the traveling waves which are detected in 2L/v and 2(L − x)/v seconds (“L” is the line length, x is an initial guess about the fault location, and “v” is the traveling wave propagation speed) after the first one are used to discriminate internal and external faults. Then the traveling wave propagation speed and the time difference between the first and the second traveling waves are used to find the fault location. This process can also be used for the internal fault identification. Finally, two decision trees and the amplitude of initial current traveling waves in different modes are used for the fault type classification and faulted phase selection. The feasibility of the proposed algorithm is investigated by test signals which are simulated in PSCAD/EMTDC, and the algorithm is implemented in MATLAB.
Accurate fault location on EHV lines using both RBF based support vector machine and SCALCG based neural network
 An appropriate method for fault location on Extra High Voltage (EHV) transmission line using Support Vector Machine (SVM) is proposed in this paper. It relies on the application of SVM and frequency characteristics of the measured single end positive sequence voltage and current measurement of transient signals of the system. This paper is proposing a new hybrid approach for fault location on EHV lines using Radial Basis Function (RBF) basis SVM and Scaled Conjugate Gradient (SCALCG) basis neural network method. Sample inputs are determined by MATLAB. The average error of fault location in 400 kV and 150 km line is tested and the results prove that the proposed method is effective and reduce the error within a short duration of time using both RBF based SVM and SCALCG based neural network.
A noncommunication adaptive single phase auto-reclosure of transmission lines using phase space based criteria
 This paper presents two phase space (PS) based criteria, and then on the basis of which it illustrates the preparation of a new non-intelligent and noncommunication adaptive single phase auto-reclosure (ASPAR) scheme to detect the secondary arc extinction for reclosure of transmission lines after self-clearing of transient faults. This scheme, which is fed by local voltage signal, can accurately distinguish between transient and permanent faults in transmission lines. Moreover, in the case of transient faults, the secondary arc extinction can be detected by the proposed algorithm within 8 ms and under effective operational and structural conditions, including different fault locations, load amounts, number of circuits, ideally transposed, partially transposed and un-transposed circuits, existence of shunt reactors and measurement noise. Besides, the presented PS based algorithm can be implemented sample by sample and does not need complicated integral computation, which connotes that it can be embedded in reclosing relays in transmission systems.
Adaptive single-phase auto-reclosing method using power line carrier signals
 This paper proposes a new method for adaptive single-phase auto-reclosing (ASPAR) that improves the rate of successful reclosing actions after the occurrence of a transient single-phase fault and prevents unsuccessful reclosing. After the occurrence of a fault, the only faulty phase is disconnected by the protection system (e.g., distance relays and circuit breakers). The proposed method deploys power line carrier (PLC) signals for determination of the secondary arc extinction time and releasing the reclosing signals to the circuit breakers. Despite the growing use of new communication systems (e.g., fibre-optic links), PLC systems are still widely used, and may not be considered for replacement in near future. Therefore, the proposed method can be utilized as an auxiliary application of PLC systems to enhance the resiliency of power grids. The simulation studies are carried out using EMTP-RV and MATLAB, and the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed method are discussed and compared with the existing ASPAR methods. According to the simulation results, the efficiency of the proposed ASPAR method is negligibly influenced by the following factors: fault location, faulty phase, system loading, transmission line transposition, shunt reactor, PLC carrier frequency, PLC operating mode, and the noises.
Adaptive ground distance protection for UPFC compensated transmission lines: A formulation considering the fault resistance effect
 This paper presents a mathematical deterministic adaptive distance protection formulation for UPFC compensated transmission lines. The proposed formulation is developed using a phase component approach and considers and compensates for various UPFC operation conditions and non-zero fault resistances. The proposed methodology is completely adaptive and independent of system characteristics (such as changes in transmission line impedances) or operating conditions (such as different load conditions and controlled reference parameters). Moreover, the proposed formulation uses local and remote end voltage and current signals as input data. The comparative test results demonstrate potential beneficial aspects of the proposed formulation for real-time applications.
A realistic dynamic model for gear fault diagnosis
 A reliable dynamic model that predicts the vibrations of a gear transmission containing a fault may allow us to recognize the effects of that fault, to identify its severity, and to develop methods for characterizing its type by using a limited number of experiments. In this research, a new generic model for gear dynamics is proposed. This model is solved numerically, and combines the most advanced approaches for gear modeling, including: modeling the contact between gear pairs as a set of springs, modeling the effect of faults on the mesh stiffness, and integrating the geometric errors. As a result, the model simulates successfully the acceleration signal of a realistic gear pair in a realistic environment. In this paper, we present a different approach to simulate partial tooth face faults, which takes into account the partial contact loss along the tooth contact line due to the fault's geometry. We propose a new analytical formulation for modeling complete tooth face faults that are located across the entire contact area. Additionally, a modified analytical expression for describing the tooth profile errors is proposed. Using a realistic simulation, we were able to experimentally validate the model.
Fast fault detection scheme for series-compensated lines during power swing
 This paper reports the use of a novel ultra-high speed scheme to release the distance relay to operate for a fault during a power swing in the series compensated line. In the scheme, in order to extract the fault induced voltage and current components, voltage and current samples are analyzed by the multi-resolution morphological gradient (MMG), first. Then, the fault initiated forward travelling wave is computed at the distance relay point. Next, Likelihood ratio [LR] test is utilized to detect a jump in the statistical mean of the calculated forward travelling wave. Finally, a support vector machine (SVM) classifier is employed to distinguish faults from other normal capacitor and switching transients. It is shown that in all of the simulated cases, our ultra-high speed algorithm was successful in fault detection across a wide range conditions including, fault type, fault resistance, fault location, pre-fault loading and fault inception time. Moreover, we found that using the proposed scheme significantly speeded the fault detection, in comparison with the existing phasor based methods. In addition, the improvements noted in our algorithm are achieved with a low computational burden.
A high fault coverage test approach for communication channels in network on chip
 This paper proposes a new high fault coverage test approach for short faults in Network on Chip communication channels. The proposed approach consists of a built in self-test as well as a Packet/flit Comparing Module (PCM) embedded in the network adapter and a router, respectively. The approach is mainly characterized by the fact that, the detection, location, and routing table updating processes are simultaneously carried out after which the test time is minimized. The approach with high scalability leads to 100% test coverage and 89.5% capability of diagnosing faulty channels in one round (two phases). The simulation results show that the approach hardware and time cost is optimized compared with the previous methodologies.
Faults Monitoring System in the Electric Power Grid of Medium Voltage
 In electric power to medium voltage one of the service quality factors is to ensure the continuous supply of electricity to the customer. This work aims to develop a fault monitoring system based only in one variable: the electric current. The purpose is to develop a flexible and scalable system so that any electrical grid that can identify the cause and location of the failure in the medium voltage of electric power grid, contributing to improve the service quality of the grid. Also, the system can be easily adapted to monitor environmental parameters to generate alerts on natural catastrophes. The neutral system that is implemented (grounded, impedance grounded or ungrounded) is an important factor, in this work the ungrounded system is evaluated. In this paper three different algorithms have been developed: System A, system B and C. System A monitors the nominal value of electric current in each line of the electric power grid, system B monitors the value of electric power in each transformer station and system C compares the current at the begin and end of each line of the grid, checking if there is any discrepancy between them. All algorithms were tested in simulation mode and the most flexible, system C, was implemented in laboratorial prototype. It has been verified that for evaluating the monitoring system it is necessary to analyze the following parameters: real-time fault detection and location, monitoring before the distribution line protections act and the ability to adapt according to changes in the electric power grid, improving the service quality.
An improved fault-location method for distribution system using wavelets and support vector regression
 This paper presents a wavelets and support vector regression (SVR) based method for locating grounded faults in radial distribution systems. The method utilizes traveling wave data recorded at the substation only. After modal transformation on three-phase traveling waves, the arrival time and amplitude information of modal components are extracted using discrete wavelet transform (DWT). In particular, time delay and ratio between the first Wavelet Transform Modulus Maxima (WTMM) of modal components in each scale are the candidate features for training a SVR which will be used for fault distance prediction. The simulation and SVR process are performed respectively using PSCAD/EMTDC and MATLAB. The result shows the method has high accuracy and good stability.
Model-Based Fault Diagnosis of an Automated Manual Transmission Shifting Actuator
 This paper presents a model-based methodology of residuals design for fault diagnosis of an Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) shifting actuator by employing Structural Analysis (SA). A group of sensors are suggested to obtain the maximal capability of Fault Detection and Isolation (FDI) after performing SA. Then, Minimal Structurally Over-determined (MSO) sets are identified to generate four residuals. To ensure stable and robust residuals, concepts from Analytical Redundant Relation (ARR) and observer-based parameter evaluation techniques are utilized. The proposed FDI scheme for AMT actuator has been successfully tested and verified using numerical simulations in MATLAB Simulink. The presented scheme offers a cost effective solution by using only two sensors to monitor five critical faults in AMT actuator.
A new fault location algorithm for radial distribution systems using modal analysis
 In this paper, an accurate and efficient method is proposed for fault section estimation and fault distance calculation in distribution systems, based on frequency spectrum components of fault generated traveling waves. Fault occurrence in a radial distribution system generates high frequency traveling waves that can be divided into two parts. Part of them travels between fault location and substation and the other part is reflected between network junctions and substation. By identification of these two parts, the proposed algorithm determines faulted section and exact distance of fault from substation uniquely. Consequently, the main drawback of the impedance based methods which is the multiple-estimation problem is removed. In the proposed method, it is assumed that just one voltage recorder is installed at the distribution substation and additional equipments such as, fault indicators and PQ monitoring devices are also not needed to be installed in the distribution system. The simulations are carried out using ATP software and the results are processed by MATLAB software. Simulation results of various types of faults on a typical distribution system demonstrate high efficiency and accuracy of the proposed method. Effect of different influential parameters such as fault inception angle, fault resistance and load variations has also been taken into account.
Realistic insights into impedance seen by distance relays of a SSSC-compensated transmission line incorporating shunt capacitance of line
 In practice, the series compensation is applied to medium-/long-length transmission lines. Such lines include significant shunt capacitance, neglecting of which is expected to noticeably influence the impedance seen by distance relays. Taking the shunt capacitance of a transmission line compensated by the static synchronous series compensator (SSSC) as well as other affecting factors into account, this paper derives precise mathematical expressions governing the apparent impedance seen by the distance relay of the line. Through the acquired expressions, the research conducts sensitivity studies considering different compensation scenarios and locations for the SSSC. The studies make an attempt to produce realistic insights into ideal tripping characteristics of the distance protection of the under studied line, and also into the susceptibility of the impedance seen to output parameters of the SSSC. In addition, the research’s findings well demonstrate the extent to which neglecting the shunt capacitance of the line would contribute to mis-operation of the distance relay.
Helical fault diagnosis model based on data-driven incremental mergence
 With the improving capability for acquiring real-time data in the field of intelligent manufacturing, the data-driven machine learning approach has been an effective means for equipment fault diagnosis. Although incremental learning can make up for the shortcoming of machine learning that newly generated data must be combined with the original data for retraining, it cannot be carried out directly and effectively in the face of problems caused by fault data streams of massive-volume, imbalance, strong noise, and strong causality. In this paper, a helical fault diagnosis model based on data-driven incremental mergence is proposed to tackle this problem. Each helical cycle includes four procedures to handle incremental data blocks for imbalanced data processing, feature extraction and classification, effective example selection, and dynamic evaluation of features and examples. The effective features and examples are then transmitted to the next helical cycle to merge for preserving the fault information. The experimental results of bearing operation data demonstrate that the proposed model could efficiently solve the problem of incremental learning with massive and imbalanced fault data, significantly improve the recognition rate of minority faults, and reduce the time cost, thus contributing to meeting the specific requirements of equipment fault data.
Fault localization using dual pulse widths for PON monitoring system
 We propose a novel method using dual pulse widths to locate the fiber break, which can share the pulse detecting source with the previous proposed passive optical network (PON) monitoring systems. The rectangular detecting pulses with two different pulse widths are sequentially injected into the faulty fiber link to generate corresponding parameters for the established model equations. We also investigate the corresponding variables (i.e., different combinations of dual pulse widths, pulse repetition frequency and accuracy of the power meter) that may affect the performance of the proposed method. The experimental results show that the fiber breakpoint can be located with little error. The simple and low-cost method provides a fault localization functionality for the PON monitoring systems.
A low-cost high-speed self-checking carry select adder with multiple-fault detection
 Employing cost-efficient, high-speed and fault-tolerant processing units is an essential goal in the design of current processors. In this paper, the carry select adder (CSeA) as one of the fastest adders is augmented respecting multiple-fault detection, delay, power and required area. In this way, based on the concept of a self-checking full adder, an m-bit logic-optimized self-checking single-stage CSeA is designed in which at most m concurrent faults can be detected. Then, based on a delay analysis, a new grouping structure for the self-checking multi-stage CSeA apart from the conventional square-root (SQRT) grouping is proposed to optimize the overall delay for different adder sizes. The proposed grouping structure decreases the power overhead, as well. Experimental results show that as well as an acceptable multiple-fault detection capability, noticeable improvements are achieved in delay and power consumption compared to the previous self-checking CSeA designs. The proposed CSeA reaches in average 20% power reduction and 34% speed improvement in different sizes compared to the best existing design.
An algorithm for estimating fault location in an unbalanced three-phase power system
 A new algorithm for estimating fault location on a transmission line, as well as the fault type, is studied and tested using simulation data obtained from the Electromagnetic Transient Program (EMTP). The proposed algorithm is based on the least absolute value estimation approach (LAV), and uses digitized samples of post-fault voltage and current waveforms at the relay locations. The proposed algorithm is applied to two different models of the transmission line. The first model is a three phase long transmission line, while the second model is a three phase three terminals transmission line. The measurements taken at the relay location do not need to be synchronized. Effects of critical parameters on the behavior of the proposed algorithm and on the estimated fault location are examined. A computational comparison between the proposed algorithm and the least errors square (LES) is presented in the paper.
A new approach of fast fault detection in HV-B transmission lines based on Detail Spectrum Energy analysis using oscillographic data
 The main focus of this research is to develop an accurate real-time method for fault detection and analysis of HVB (High Voltage Class-B) transmission lines. The current and voltage signals of oscillographic records are acquired by the distance protections relays with minimum impedance GE D60-1 installed in the electrical network of SONELGAZ (Algerian Company of Electricity and GAS). This method deals on the evaluation of the Detail Spectrum Energy (DSE) calculated from the Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) applied on the current phases by moving data windows with length equivalent to one cycle of the fundamental power frequency. The fault detection algorithm is processed at first scale superimposed in the fault current signals (phases and ground) by the sharp variation of (DSE). Most of the existing methods treat the disturbances and faults simultaneously exist in transmission line as a single type. The proposed method has the ability to discriminate between the disturbances and the faults. This study is compared with the “Powerful Analysis of all Protection Fault Records” SIGRA software for determining the start fault inception and it’s clearing time. The performance of this method was tested and evaluated on a real data records and can accurately detect the fault within only half a cycle from the instant of fault occurrence.
Fault Monitoring and Accommodation of the Heat Exchanger Parameters of Triga-Mark II Nuclear Research Reactor using Model-Based Analytical Redundancy
 One of the major challenges in instrumentation is to identify wrong data (signal) measurements and perform their validation. This can be done by regularly ensuring a correct operation of the different process components, particularly those having great importance for safety, in order to detect, isolate and identify any possible degradation or fault. This operation, known as on-line fault monitoring, should be done as early as possible, before any fault causes failure in equipment which can lead to the downtime of the plant and even to severe catastrophes and disasters. Therefore, these consequences influence negatively on productivity, availability and environment. At Triga-Mark II nuclear research reactor, the heat exchangers are provided for removing generated heat from the reactor pool water throw cooling circuits. Therefore, the monitoring of the evolution of certain thermo hydraulic parameters is necessary to ensure the safety of the reactor. Among several developed techniques, analytical redundancy has been recognized as an effective method for fault monitoring. It is the process of identifying a faulty instrument in a system through a comparison of its output to an estimate data. This estimation is based on the model and the measurements provided by the data acquisition chains of the existing sensors during all the operating modes of the installation. In our case, we are limited to mathematical models and Kalman filter approaches. In this paper we review the state of the fault monitoring and some model based analytical redundancy techniques for the heat exchanger, and present experimental results on their application to temperatures and flow rates of the cooling system of Triga-Mark II research reactor core.
Equivalent traveling waves based current differential protection of EHV/UHV transmission lines
 Current differential protection is one of the most important primary protections of extra/ultra-high-voltage (EHV/UHV) transmission lines. Despite its wide application, there exist major adverse factors of synchronization misalignment, current transformer (CT) saturation and line capacitive charging current, which may lead to a mal-operation. To solve these problems, a new current differential protection method, based on the concept of equivalent traveling wave (ETW), is proposed. The protection method is immune to CT saturation and line capacitive charging current, operates at an ultra-high speed, and does not require synchronized sampling. In the protection method, wavelet transform modulus maxima (WTMM) are used to reconstruct the current ETWs and thus reduce the communication traffic to an appropriate level. The reconstructed ETWs are then used to establish the percentage restraint operation criterion. Besides, a blocking method is implemented to avoid possible mal-operation when an external fault occurs on a line that forms a parallel path but has no mutual coupling with the protected line. Extensive simulations verify that the proposed protection method can serve as a secure and reliable primary protection for non-, shunt-, or series-compensated transmission lines with high sensitivity, even on internal high-resistance faults.
Location of faults in power distribution laterals using superimposed components and programmable logic controllers
 In this study, a digital fault location and monitoring technique using programmable logic controller (PLC) for primary overhead power distribution networks is presented. This technique employs pre- and post-fault current and voltage information along with data from the laterals. By using lateral current data transferred through shielded coaxial cables to the substation, the possibility of multiple fault point locations are eliminated. The effectiveness of this method is verified through Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) simulations.
An intelligent fault detection and classification scheme for distribution lines integrated with distributed generators
 Conventional relays fail to detect the high impedance fault (HIF) in distribution lines, as the change in the current magnitude is very negligible compared to conventional relay settings. Moreover, the incorporation of distributed generators in the distribution lines changes the fault current level, which makes the HIF-detection more complex. In this paper, a fuzzy-based intelligent fault detection and classification scheme is developed for the distribution lines integrated with DGs. Two different fuzzy inference systems (FIS) are modelled in each phase to detect the fault. The first FIS identifies the high magnitude of fault current associated with normal shunt faults; and the second FIS identifies the small magnitude of current owing to occurrence of HIF. The proposed scheme uses the features extracted from the Teager energy operator. An extensive study is conducted and the response time is found to be around ¼-1 cycle. Results validate the efficacy of the proposed scheme.
Controlled switching technique for minimization of switching surge during energization of uncompensated and shunt compensated transmission lines for circuit breakers having pre-insertion resistors
 Controlled Switching Device (CSD) is considered to be the replacement of Pre-Insertion Resistor (PIR). Moreover, tie Circuit Breaker (CB) used in One-and-a-Half-Breaker (OHB) scheme as well as in line connected with non-switchable reactor scheme are employed with PIR and CSD. In this paper, a new methodology has been proposed using CSD with PIR-CB for further mitigation of the switching surge during energization/re-energization of Un-compensated Transmission Line (UCTL) and Shunt reactor compensated Transmission Line (SCTL). Unlike the existing methodology (both for UCTL/SCTL) which requires line side voltage signatures, the proposed methodology does not necessitate the same for SCTL and requires only the polarity of line side voltages for UCTL. The performance of the proposed methodology has been evaluated by generating diversified cases on 400 kV UCTL and SCTL using PSCAD/EMTDC software package. The proposed switching strategy is able to mitigate the switching surge of the order of 33% for UCTL and 20% for SCTL. Comparative evaluation of the proposed methodology with usual PIR methodology clearly shows its effectiveness with reference to statistical variations of CB. The proposed methodology has been validated during effects of various parameters such as weather conditions, insulation resistance, change in closing phase sequence, and Surge Arrestor (SA).
An overview of digital fault location algorithms for power transmission lines using transient waveforms
 A digital fault location algorithm for calculating the fault distance on a power transmission line can be designed using any of three approaches: the steady-state phasor approach, the differential equation approach and the travelling-wave approach. In this paper, the algorithms utilizing the differential equation and the travelling-wave approach are reviewed. The effect of various algorithms on the relay speed and accuracy is examined. The associated filtering techniques are discussed.
A new technique for location of transmission line faults using single-terminal voltage and current data
 This paper presents a new technique for location of transmission line faults using voltage and current measurements from one end of the faulted line. The method differs from past techniques in many respects. The main feature of the new technique is that it considers the influence of the remote-end infeed of the transmission line, the effect of the transmission line capacitance, fault resistance, prefault loading conditions, and the effect of mutual coupling between different phases of the line, and then computes with a microprocessor the distance to the fault point without any approximations. It uses recorded phase voltages and currents at the near end, then the fundamental components of the measured signals are extracted using microprocessor filters. The modal values of the extracted signals are computed then processed to indicate the precise location of the fault.
Efficient network fault analysis method for unbalanced microgrid systems
 A novel network short-circuit fault analysis method based on graph theory and a complex short-circuit MVA representation is proposed as an alternative method for unbalanced microgrid systems. The proposed algorithm is based on the branch-path incidence matrix K and the newly defined augmented incidence matrix Kℓ of a power network, as opposed to the traditional Z-bus building algorithm and inverse Y-bus matrix with the lower and upper triangular matrix (LU) method. To simplify the unit transformation among different voltage levels, all network components are represented in a short-circuit MVA form with their own infinite bus. Moreover, two major types of distributed generation (DG) models have been successfully implemented using the proposed method; therefore, the contributions of DG to the fault currents can be easily addressed in a microgrid system. The results indicate that the proposed algorithm is accurate and performs better than other methods, particularly with respect to large-scale unbalanced microgrid distribution systems with hybrids of single-, two-, and three-phase.
A Study on Smart Fault Locator Based on Time-Synchronized Phasor
 In order to reduce fault location estimation error, this paper deals with an enhanced fault location technique based on the improved DC offset filter. In addition, this paper presents the complete design of smart digital fault locator using GPS time-synchronized phasor. The smart fault location algorithm uses the transmitted relaying signals from the two-end terminal. The smart fault locator hardware consists of a main processor unit, analog to digital processor unit, signal interface unit, and power module. Various types of real-time test using COMTRADE format of Omicron apparatus are included.
A novel fast distance relay for series compensated transmission lines
 This paper presents a fast distance relay for series compensated transmission lines based on the R–L differential-equation algorithm using the theory of equal transfer process of transmission lines. The measuring distances based on the proposed algorithm can fast approach the actual value of fault distance when a fault occurs in front of the series capacitor. When a fault occurs behind of the series capacitor, the fault loop, including the series capacitor, does not match the R–L transmission line model, so the measuring distances fluctuate severely. Based on this, the relative position of the fault with respect to the series capacitor can be judged effectively according to the fluctuation range of the measuring distances, and the accurate fault location can be obtained fast. A variety of PSCAD/EMTDC simulation tests show that the new relay has fast operating speed and high accuracy when applied to the long series compensated transmission lines.
Subsurface faults inferred from reflection seismic, earthquakes, and sedimentological relationships: Implications for induced seismicity in Alberta, Canada
 Given the recent induced seismic activity in Alberta, identification of subsurface faults and areas of structural complexity has become increasingly important in improving our understanding of the controls on induced seismic events. Using a 3D geological model supplemented with 2D and 3D reflection seismic data, several basement-bounded and basement-rooted faults, which extend upward and into the Devonian strata, are identified in areas coincident with increased seismic activity. The presence of faults in the study area was confirmed through a statistically significant correlation of high-quality seismic event data from historical and recent (1970–2016) induced earthquakes in Alberta to the edge of the Devonian-aged Swan Hills platform. Along with the identification of faults using reflection seismic and earthquake hypocenter data, a review of the role of pre-existing structure on depositional patterns that has been previously used to infer deep structure in this area, is also presented in this study. Several pre-existing extensional and/or transtensional style faults in the deeper strata and shallow basement of the study area are consistent with structure influencing the sedimentation of the overlying stratigraphy. Therefore, a better understanding of genetic fault-reef associations and the relationship to overlying strata may aid in identification of fault locations, style, and orientation. Considering the advancement of proper avoidance strategies during the planning stages of unconventional resource development or storage, this paper demonstrates the use of geological knowledge and relationships to identify areas comprising faults that may be prone to reactivation.
Estimation of the highest potential transmissivity of discrete shear fractures using the ductility index
 Previous studies indicated that the highest potential transmissivities of fractures in fault zones might be well estimated by a mechanical indicator: the ductility index (DI). The DI is defined as the effective mean stress normalized to the tensile strength of the intact rock mass. The mechanism of formation and preservation of pore structures in fault-zone fractures can be explained by local shear-induced tensile stresses, and pore structures in discrete shear fractures may form in the same way. I investigated, therefore, whether the DI model can correctly predict the highest transmissivities of shear fractures recorded in fractured Neogene diatomaceous mudstone (Koetoi Formation), where fault zones and joints are rare but discrete shear fractures, without mineral fillings, are abundant. Analyses of the shear fractures reveal that the detected states of paleostress are nearly equal to the current stress state, implying the shear fractures have potentially been tectonically active. Thus, the highest transmissivities detected at fractures by flowing-fluids electric conductivity (FFEC) borehole logging may potentially be treated as the highest potential transmissivities in terms of the given DIs. Relationships between the transmissivities of flow anomalies and DIs fit the existing DI model well, which suggests the model is applicable to discrete shear fracture systems as well as fault zones.
Signal processing methods in fault detection in manufacturing systems
 The paper gives a short introduction to the problem of fault detection in manufacturing systems using digital signal processing methods. Usually, in manufacturing systems faults can occur in electrical drives, transmission lines, power management systems and can be detected through sensor data acquisition. Important task of the diagnosis is to differentiate normal operating condition from faulty condition. Detection of occurred faults in manufacturing systems depends on how efficiently erroneous features are extracted from acquired signals. This work focuses on signal processing based methods using Discrete Wavelet and Wavelet Packet Transforms for detection and classification the occurred faults. The faults are simulated using test signals with different time and frequency properties and the results obtained from different approaches are evaluated and compared. The simulation results prove that the proposed techniques handle the problem of fault detection and may even predict abnormalities exploring long term tendencies of the detected signals.
Fault Location and Diagnosis Algorithms for Radial Distribution Systems
 In this paper, a fault location and diagnosis algorithm is proposed. The proposed scheme first identifies fault locations using an iterative estimation of load and fault current at each line section. Then an actual location is identified applying the current pattern matching rules. If necessary, comparison of the interrupted load with the actual load follows and generates the final diagnosis decision. Effect of load uncertainty and fault resistance has been carefully investigated through simulation results, that turns out tobe very satisfactory.
A new approach to fault location in three-phase underground distribution system using combination of wavelet analysis with ANN and FLS
 This paper presents the results of investigation into a new fault classification and location technique, using EMTP software. The simulated data is then analyzed using advanced signal processing technique based on wavelet analysis to extract useful information from the signals. The artificial neural network (ANN) and the fuzzy logic system (FLS) is then used to detect the type and the location of the ground high impedance, ungrounded series, ungrounded and ground shunt faults in a practical underground distribution system (UDS). The results indicate that the fault location technique has an acceptable accuracy (error < 1.5%) under the whole variety of different systems and fault conditions. Therefore, the proposed approach can have high performance for the evaluation of the fault location and classification.
Failure risk analysis under switching surges in power transmission systems
 The insulation of the power transmission systems is exposed to stresses not only during normal operating but also by the transient overvoltages. Transient overvoltages are originated by different sources such as lightning, switching and faults. The switching surges have become dominant factor in the insulation design of Extra High Voltages and Ultra High Voltages systems. Insulation failure probability under transient surges is the main impressive concern in the studies of insulation coordination and failure risk. In this paper the failure risk of insulation under switching overvoltages generated during energization of unloaded transmission line are computed using the statistical approach. In the calculation, both the statistical characteristics of the overvoltages and statistical distribution of insulation flashover probabilities are tackled. The statistical distributions of energization overvoltages on a typical 500 kV transmission-line are derived from the results of 100 energization cases with statistical switching using Alternate Transient Program (ATP). The most important factors affecting the insulation flashover probabilities and the failure risk are demonstrated. The effects of number of towers in parallel, the switching overvoltages profile, the front time of the overvoltages waveform and the non-standard atmospheric conditions on the failure probability are investigated. Failure risk analysis is analyzed using different probability distribution schemes.
A new approach to fault location in two-terminal transmission lines using artificial neural networks
 This paper presents a new approach to fault location in two-terminal overhead transmission lines, using artificial neural networks (ANN's). The method presented enables the distance to be determined at which the fault occurs in a two-terminal transmission line using the fundamental components of 50/60 Hz of the fault and pre-fault voltage and current magnitudes, measured in each phase of the reference end. The main characteristic of the method is the consideration during the training period of both correctly measured magnitudes and magnitudes affected by errors. Using properly validated fault simulation software has checked the accuracy of the method with both correct initial data and initial data containing errors.
Electric Power Transmission
 Modern electric power system consists of complex interconnected network of components. This chapter covers the components that make up the modern power system. These include generators, transformers, and transmission line. It also focuses on the transmission of electric power, how to optimize its power transfer capability, the phenomena of over-voltages and the insulation requirement of transmission lines.
Can Fault Leakage Occur Before or Without Reactivation? Results from an in Situ Fault Reactivation Experiment at Mont Terri
 We conducted fluid injection tests in four packed-off borehole intervals across the Mont Terri clay-rich fault zone which is an analogue to a minor fault that would hardly be detectable from surface seismic surveys during the initial design of a sequestration site. While pressurizing the intervals at maximum injection pressures of 5 to 6.3 MPa, we simultaneously monitored fault displacement, pore pressure and injection flowrate in two boreholes. A large (factor of 100 to 1000) transmissivity increase occurred in the fractured damage zone intervals close to the interface with the fault core. No significant transmissivity variation was measured in the fault core. The transmissivity variations in the fault damage zone occurred at pressures above 3.9 to 4.4 MPa, corresponding to the hydraulic opening of natural shear planes oriented N039 to N058 and dipping 59 to 69°E. They are associated with slip on the order of 0.01 mm to larger than 0.1 mm on the activated planes, the highest value being observed at the interface between the low permeable fault core and the damage zone. Contrasted fault movements were observed, mainly dilatant in the fault core, highly dilatant-normal slip at the fault core-damage zone interface, and low dilatant-strike-slip-reverse in the damage-to-intact zones. These results suggest an important role of local alteration of “regional” stress at the core-damage zone interface on fault hydraulic property variations with limited slip, an important finding when evaluating the loss of natural seal integrity of CO2 sequestration sites.
Adaptive sparse representation based on circular-structure dictionary learning and its application in wheelset-bearing fault detection
 Wheelset bearings are among the crucial elements of bogie frames used in high-speed trains. Wheelset-bearing fault detection can actively reduce or preclude safety-related accidents and realize condition-based maintenance in high-speed train service. Therefore, it is of great significance to automatically detect wheelset-bearing faults. Sparse representations based on circular-structure dictionary learning (SRCSDL) provide an excellent framework for extracting fault impact trains (FITs) induced by wheelset-bearing faults. However, the performance of SRCSDL on extracting FITs heavily relies on the selection of method-related parameters. A systematic method for selecting such parameters has not been reported in the literature. A novel fault detection method, adaptive SRCSDL (ASRCSDL), is therefore proposed in this paper. The effects of the selection of each SRCSDL parameter on extracting FITs are investigated. It was found that three parameters (the length of single set signals, the number of signal sets, and convergence error) can be fixed according to the characteristics of the SRCSDL algorithm. To adaptively tune the remaining three parameters, main frequency analysis is used to select the number of kernel functions, the number of maximum extreme values is employed to determine the length of the kernel function, and envelope spectra kurtosis-guided self-tuning algorithms are proposed to tune the target sparsity of SRCSDL. The proposed method is then validated using the simulated signals and bench and real-line tests.
High impedance fault location in 11 kV underground distribution systems using wavelet transforms
 Detecting and locating high impedance fault (HIF) in distribution system is a crucial task. HIF causes insulation degradation and over time will lead to supply interruptions. However, it is quite challenging to locate HIF since changes of voltage or current signal during the fault is insignificant and not able to trigger protection system. Besides, the complexity of the distribution system such as non-homogenous line and lateral with branches increase the difficulty in detecting and locating HIF. Considering these issues, this paper presents a method to detect and locate HIF based on Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) Multi-Resolution Analysis. In the method, fault features from voltages measured at primary substation are extracted using DWT and matched with the pre-developed database from simulation. Due to single measurement and multiple branches, the matching will produce multiple possible faulted sections. This problem is then solved by applying ranking analysis to rank the possible faulted sections from the most likely to the least likely faulted section. The proposed method has been tested with all types of faults on a 38-node distribution network system in Malaysia using the PSCAD/EMTDC software. The test results revealed the effectiveness of the method. Since only single measurement of voltage signal is needed, the method is considered economical for practical implementation.
A permanent fault tolerant dynamic task allocation approach for Network-on-Chip based multicore systems
 Rapid advancement in deep sub-micron regime has made the integration of multiple processing elements possible on a single chip. This has enabled parallel execution of applications on Network-on-Chip (NoC) based multiprocessor platforms. Task mapping and scheduling play crucial roles in timing response and energy consumption of such systems. Tasks present in these applications can be of mixed critical in nature with different importance. However, the on-chip processors executing these tasks of any given application might fail during runtime. Fault tolerance becomes challenging when real-time applications with mixed critical requirements are hosted on such fault prone environment. The complexity of the problem is further magnified in dynamic scenarios when such real-time applications can enter or leave the multicore platform at any time instant. Although several prior works have addressed fault tolerant resource allocation for mixed critical applications, few of these consider permanent processor faults. In this work, an improved fault tolerant resource allocation strategy is presented to mitigate the effect of permanent processor faults on mixed critical applications. The proposed algorithm offers a runtime solution to the unified problem of fault tolerant mapping and scheduling for real-time applications. Both the temporal property of the tasks and the timing information of the faults have been considered while implementing a suitable fault tolerance strategy that reduces the communication energy consumption and provides an improved level of quality of service for the executing applications. A detailed evaluation of the performance of the proposed algorithm has been conducted for different applications. On comparing with other state-of-the-art fault tolerant approaches, the proposed policy shows 28.5% average reduction in communication energy consumption while achieving 34.7% improved quality of service. Additionally, the proposed scheme shows better scalability in comparison to the recent techniques reported in literature.
Stability improvement of fixed speed induction generator wind farm using STATCOM during different fault locations and durations
 This paper investigates the impact of the fault ride through on the stability of fixed speed wind farm interconnected grid. The effect of fault location and its duration time are studied for different fault types. The contribution of Static Synchronous Compensator STATCOM to support the fixed-speed wind farm interconnected electric grid during different fault locations and different fault duration times are investigated. Simulation test cases using MATLAB-Simulink are implemented on a 9 MW wind farm exports a power to 120 KV grid. The simulation results show the influence of fault location and its duration on active power, reactive power, and bus voltage of the wind farm.
Two novel proposed discrete wavelet transform and filter based approaches for short-circuit faults detection in power transmission lines
 In this study, two approaches are presented to detect short-circuit faults in power transmission lines. The two proposed methods are completely novel from both theoretical and technical aspects. The first approach is a soft computing method that uses discrete wavelet transform with Daubechies mother wavelets db1, db2, db3, and db4. The second approach is a hardware based method that utilizes a novel proposed two-stage finite impulse response filter with a sampling frequency of 32 kHz, and a very short process time about three samples time. The two approaches are analyzed by presenting theoretical results. Simulated results obtained by simulating a three-phase 230 kV, 50 Hz power transmission line are given that validate the theoretical results, and explicitly verify that the filter based approach has an accuracy of 100% in presence of 10% disturbance while the accuracy of the wavelet transform based approach is maximally 97%, but it has less complication and implementation cost. Another comparative study between this work and other works shows that the two proposed methods have higher accuracy and very shorter process time compared to the other methods, especially in presence of 10% disturbance that actually occurs in power transmission lines.
Fault classification in power systems using EMD and SVM
 In recent years, power quality has become the main concern in power system engineering. Classification of power system faults is the first stage for improving power quality and ensuring the system protection. For this purpose a robust classifier is necessary. In this paper, classification of power system faults using Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) and Support Vector Machines (SVMs) is proposed. EMD is used for decomposing voltages of transmission line into Intrinsic Mode Functions (IMFs). Hilbert Huang Transform (HHT) is used for extracting characteristic features from IMFs. A multiple SVM model is introduced for classifying the fault condition among ten power system faults. Algorithm is validated using MATLAB/SIMULINK environment. Results demonstrate that the combination of EMD and SVM can be an efficient classifier with acceptable levels of accuracy.
An adaptive three-phase reclosure scheme for shunt reactor-compensated transmission lines based on the change of current spectrum
 In this paper, a new three-phase adaptive reclosing scheme for transmission lines with shunt reactors is proposed to identify fault nature and determine the arc extinction time under the single and double-phase-to-ground faults. According to the fact that the faulted phase currents of shunt reactors contain only one oscillating frequency before the fault extinction and contain other two different oscillating frequencies when the fault is extinguished, this change of current frequency can be used to distinguish transient faults. When sampling rate is an integral multiple of the faulted phase current frequency of shunt reactors under permanent faults, an abrupt increase of currents even harmonics which is caused by spectral leakage of the DFT algorithm under non-synchronous sampling can lead to identify transient faults and three-phase reclosing. Electromagnetic Transient Program simulation results verify the correctness of the frequency spectrum characteristic analysis of the faulted currents of shunt reactor. The feasibility of the proposed scheme is also tested under different fault condition.
A survey on fault-tolerant application mapping techniques for Network-on-Chip
 Reliability is becoming a major concern in Networks-on-Chips (NoCs) design. Several techniques have been proposed in the literature to deal with different types of faults at different levels of a NoC. This paper surveys the work performed on fault-tolerant mapping techniques in NoCs. A classification is proposed, based on the approaches adopted to recover from failures. Techniques based on the combination of mapping and routing, techniques based on redundancy, and techniques based on task remapping are the main categories of the classification proposed. Furthermore, performance comparison among the listed techniques is provided to highlight the differences. A discussion of the proposed techniques is also performed for each category, leading to some open issues.
Multi fluid-flow record during episodic mode I opening: A microstructural and SIMS study (Cotiella Thrust Fault, Pyrenees)
 Syntectonic veins commonly have been used to assess the composition and source of fluids involved in fault zone activity. Such veins also provide information on the ambient stress conditions during deformation and mineralization. Based on bulk sampling and bulk O- and C-isotope analysis, combined with fluid inclusion microthermometry, many studies have demonstrated that syntectonic veins provide snapshots of fluid composition and stress conditions over the course of fault history. This is widely acknowledged for mode I extension veins that develop in the damage zones of faults. However, an important and unanswered question is the extent to which such veins record a more detailed fault history at the micron scale. In this study, we present new detailed in-situ micron-scale δ18O data, measured using Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (SIMS), combined with detailed fluid inclusion microthermometry and Δ47 clumped isotope thermometry to document the fluid and temperature conditions during mode I vein growth related to deformation along the Cotiella thrust fault (Pyrenees). All the studied veins show three distinct episodes of vein opening, recording a complex history of varying fluid composition and temperature. Results show that the studied fault portion passed from a hydrological rock-buffered system, in which formation waters were in isotopic equilibrium with the host sediments, to a fluid-buffered system involving meteoric water. However, such information is only achievable at the micron scale using Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry. This study demonstrates the potential of these new micro-beam techniques for investigating fault behavior in more detail than previously available, particularly with respect to the nature of the fluids involved and the P–T conditions extant during fault activity.
Optimal demodulation subband selection for sun gear crack fault diagnosis in planetary gearbox
 Envelope analysis (EA) is one of the most usually used demodulation methods for fault diagnosis of gearboxes, the main problem for EA is to find a frequency subband that contains more fault-related components. However, modulation phenomenon can be observed for both healthy and damaged situations in planetary gearboxes. And most of the traditional EA techniques cannot distinguish the fault-related modulation components from fault-unrelated modulation components, which may leads to a degradation of the fault diagnosis method for planetary gearbox. In order to overcome the problem of finding the subband that contains the most fault-related modulation components, this paper proposed a new optimal demodulation subband selection method (ODSSM) for fault diagnosis of planetary gearbox. With the proposed method, the fault-related degree of each subband is evaluated based on a new index that measuring the ratio of fault-related modulation components to fault-unrelated modulation components in envelope spectrum. The index then is employed to find the optimal demodulation subband in the entire frequency range based on genetic algorithm (GA). Finally, fault diagnosis results can be obtained based on EA method. For validation, the proposed method and other two methods are utilized to detect the sun gear crack fault in planetary gearbox. The results show that the proposed method can detect the gear fault in both simulation signals and experiment signals, and achieves improved demodulation performance than the other two methods.
An energy differential relay for long transmission lines
 The operating speed and sensitivity of the current differential protection must be lowered in order to deal with the problems caused by the capacitive currents of the long transmission line. To solve this problem, a new energy differential relay is put forward. The proposed scheme can distinguish between internal and external faults by comparing the energies of two methods. The first method is to calculate the energy flow in the line in a short time interval. The second method is to calculate the energy consumption of distributed elements on the transmission line with the assumption that there is no internal fault on the line. Special means are adopted: use of modal quantities of voltage and current; the instantaneous voltage and current are distributed linearly along the transmission line; the instantaneous voltage and current vary linearly during a sampling interval; the sampling interval is equal to the travel time of the protected line. Thus the energies can be calculated by using the sampled values at each end of the transmission line. It has been proven that the calculated energies of the two different methods are equal when there is no internal fault on the transmission line. The performance of the proposed method has been verified by EMTP simulation tests, dynamic simulation tests and the comparison with a competitive method.
Centralized coordination of emergency control and protection system using online outage sensitivity index
 This paper determines the best locations for centralized load shedding considering the protection systems that can be monitored from transmission system to avoid cascading failures. The vulnerability of power system integrity is determined and ranked using online outage sensitivity index (OSI) considering ampacity of transmission lines, over excitation of generators and transformers, under frequency and under voltage protection relays and low voltage ride through capability of grid connected renewable energy sources. The power system elements are ranked based on the results of outage sensitivity index (OSI) to concentrate the load shedding as control action on areas containing most critical elements prone to outage. The efficiency of proposed multi objective approach is validated through numerical simulations of severe contingencies carried out in DigSilent Power Factory software on 39 bus IEEE standard test system.
Research on transformer fault diagnosis method and calculation model by using fuzzy data fusion in multi-sensor detection system
 In order to achieve the failure of unattended power network equipment, this paper proposes a new transformer fault diagnosis method by using multi band infrared imager sensor and discharge circuit detection sensor to set up the eight sensors detection platform. Analyzes the transformer fuzzy fault characteristics, designs the detection platform of transformer fault diagnosis, establishes a transformer fuzzy fault diagnosis model with the exponential trust function of the photoelectric sensor, the average weighted consistency of each photoelectric sensor and the support degree of the photoelectric sensors, gives the data fusion method with the trust function of the sensor and the maximum model value. Through experiment and analysis, this fault diagnosis model can improve the fusion precision and diagnostic accuracy more effectively than the general fusion algorithm and arithmetic mean value algorithm, and can scientifically diagnose the transformer equipment of power grid from multi angle. Thereby, the feasibility and effectiveness of the method are verified.
Improvement of integrated transmission line transfer index for power system voltage stability
 With the increased loading of transmission lines, the voltage stability problem has become a critical issue for most power system planners and operators. Some important studies related to the voltage stability indices used in the electric power systems are first sorted. Then, a new approach for voltage stability is developed to find the weak lines in this paper. The new method is based on the practical line ABCD parameters, the power factor of receiving end, and the power angle between the sending end and the receiving end. This concept of integrated transmission line transfer index (ITLTI) is derived for a radial transmission system and later applied to a large system. However, ITILI index has a more integrated content and should be a better solution for on line voltage stability evaluation. The new ITLTI index and other existing techniques are demonstrated and compared with numerical studies by IEEE 14-bus test system, using gradually increase reactive load.
Experimental location of damage in microelectronic solder joints after a board level reliability evaluation
 Reliability evaluation of integrated circuit (IC) packages to assess drop impact is critical, especially in the case of handheld electronic products. The objective of this study is to experimentally identify the location of damage in solder joints in electronic packaging after a board level reliability (BLR) evaluation. The BLR drop test is a useful way to characterize the drop durability of different soldered assemblies onto a printed circuit board (PCB). It is also of great importance when there is a need to evaluate the solder joint between the chip package and PCB through a daisy-chained structure during the evaluation period. However, there is no detailed information available on a pattern ground with a hatched copper PCB layout for high speed responses that are closely related to actual working conditions. In this paper, a fault location on a daisy-chained structure with a pattern ground is shown through a non-destructive analysis using a time-domain reflectometry (TDR) approach. The results obtained in this project indicate that the TDR approach can be used to detect the location of a crack in the string based on changes in the waveform response. The fault location in critical solder balls as predicted by TDR correlate well with experimental observation by cross-section.
Sandstone-filled normal faults: A case study from central California
 Despite the potential of sandstone-filled normal faults to significantly influence fluid transmissivity within reservoirs and the shallow crust, they have to date been largely overlooked. Fluidized sand, forcefully intruded along normal fault zones, markedly enhances the transmissivity of faults and, in general, the connectivity between otherwise unconnected reservoirs. Here, we provide a detailed outcrop description and interpretation of sandstone-filled normal faults from different stratigraphic units in central California. Such faults commonly show limited fault throw, cm to dm wide apertures, poorly-developed fault zones and full or partial sand infill. Based on these features and inferences regarding their origin, we propose a general classification that defines two main types of sandstone-filled normal faults. Type 1 form as a consequence of the hydraulic failure of the host strata above a poorly-consolidated sandstone following a significant, rapid increase of pore fluid over-pressure. Type 2 sandstone-filled normal faults form as a result of regional tectonic deformation. These structures may play a significant role in the connectivity of siliciclastic reservoirs, and may therefore be crucial not just for investigation of basin evolution but also in hydrocarbon exploration.
A dependence-based feature vector and its application on planetary gearbox fault classification
 To achieve planetary gearbox fault classification, vibration signal analysis has been widely employed with rich information about the health status and easy measurement. It is critical to extract features with enough health status information for fault classification. The self-adaptation of ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD) indicates the dependence between the raw vibration signal and EEMD-decomposed intrinsic mode functions (IMFs). In this study, we develop a novel fault feature vector based on the dependence. To develop the dependence-based feature vector, simulated vibration signals with different sun gear tooth crack levels are analyzed. The dependence between the raw signal and each IMF is investigated by Archimedean copulas. With the goodness-of-fit test, the copula estimation closest to the perfect fit is selected for dependence representation. The parameter of the selected copula is applied to develop the dependence-based feature vector. To test the ability of the dependence-based feature vector in fault classification for a real planetary gearbox, experimental vibration signals with different gear fault levels at different gears are classified by a multi-class support vector machine. The classification accuracy of the developed feature vector is compared with that of a reported indicator. Results show the dependence-based feature vector provides higher classification accuracy than the reported, indicating the developed feature vector contains more health status information. The developed feature vector can serve better for planetary gearbox fault classification.
Non-intrusive fault identification of power distribution systems in intelligent buildings based on power-spectrum-based wavelet transform
 A new approach for protection of power distribution systems in intelligent buildings has been presented in this paper. Directly adopting the wavelet transform coefficients (WTCs) requires longer computation time and larger memory requirements for the non-intrusive fault monitoring (NIFM) identification process. However, the WTCs contain plenty of information needed for the symmetric and asymmetric transient signals of fault events. To effectively reduce the number of WTCs representing fault transient signals without degrading performance, a power spectrum of the WTCs in different scales calculated by Parseval’s Theorem is proposed in this paper. In this paper, artificial neural networks (ANNs), in combination with power-spectrum-based wavelet transform, are used to identify fault types and locations in power distribution systems of industrial buildings by using NIFM. The high success rates of fault event recognition for load-bus faults and transmission-line faults from simulations have proved that the proposed algorithm is applicable to fault identifications of non-intrusive monitoring applications.
Misoperation analysis of steady-state and transient methods on earth fault locating in compensated distribution networks
 Earth fault detection and location are very important issues in distribution networks. Current methods for faulty feeder selection are based on measurements of steady-state or transient signals. The work presented here identifies and gives analyses of scenarios when ground protection based on these methods is prone to misoperation in resonance grounded systems. It is shown that the traditional watt-metric approach can malfunction depending on network and fault parameters. The admittance methods help to eliminate many issues, however they might have complex settings depending on network configurations. Special attention is paid to approaches based on transient signals as the most promising alternative solution. The current work considers methods utilizing zero sequence current, angle, power, energy and admittance transients. The paper reveals limitations for their application mainly due to presence of electrostatic asymmetry, cables in a network, fault resistance and inception angle. Nevertheless, dependability of these methods is higher than the steady-state especially for intermittent faults. It is also found that analysis of prefault information is important both for the steady-state and the transient methods. The obtained results can be used to enhance reliability of protective schemes and as drivers for further developments of new algorithms.
Comparison of impedance based fault location methods for power distribution systems
 Performance of 10 fault location methods for power distribution systems has been compared. The analyzed methods use only measurements of voltage and current at the substation. Fundamental component during pre-fault and fault are used in these methods to estimate the apparent impedance viewed from the measurement point. Deviation between pre-fault and fault impedance together with the system parameters are used to estimate the distance to the fault point. Fundamental aspects of each method have been considered in the analysis. Power system topology, line and load models and the necessity of additional information are relevant aspects that differentiate one method from another. The 10 selected methods have been implemented, tested and compared in a simulated network. The paper reports the results for several scenarios defined by significant values of the fault location and impedance. The estimated error has been used as a performance index in the comparison.
A NEW NUMERICAL ALGORITHM FOR FAULT LOCATION ESTIMATION USING TWO-TERMINAL SYNCHRONIZED VOLTAGE AND CURRENT PHASORS
 This paper presents a new numerical algorithm for fault location estimation which uses data from both end of the transmission line. The proposed algorithm is based on the synchronized phasors measured from the PMUs (Phasor Measurement Units) installed at both terminals of the transmission lines. Based on the length of the transmission line, the proposed algorithms are divided into the short line (without shunt capacitance) and long line algorithm (with shunt capacitance). For the purpose of the unknown fault distance the phasor calculation method is used. The proposed algorithm is tested through computer simulations to show its effectiveness.
Methodology for information extraction from oscillograms and its application for high-impedance faults analysis
 Safety and quality of supply represent targets that power distribution companies always strive to meet. Among those occurrences that can have simultaneous deleterious effects on both these targets, High-Impedance Faults (HIFs) stand out since the magnitudes of the effects on the system are too small to activate the relevant system protection devices. In this context, the main aim of this article is to present a new mathematical method for analysis of power systems transient events. This technique was used in the pre-processing of signals to help locate and identify Single Line-to-Ground (SLG) faults. The orthogonal component decomposition technique was tested qualitatively with the help of a real fault oscillogram recorded at a power distribution substation. Computer simulations based on a real distribution feeder model were performed and the numerical results showed that decomposition by Orthogonal Components was able to extract information with more than 80% correlation with the fault occurrence, almost 70% for the location and showed great immunity to the fault resistance effect.
Distribution networks HIF location: A frequency domain system model and WLS parameter estimation approach
 High impedance fault location still represents a challenge for protection engineers. In this work, an analytical formulation for high impedance fault location in power distribution systems is presented, based on system parameters estimation. The proposed method is based on a frequency domain system model, developed considering a high impedance fault model composed by two antiparallel diodes and an arc resistance. The proposed model is an overdetermined nonlinear algebraic system of equations in which the solution is obtained through a Weighted Least Square approach. A residual analysis is applied for estimate selection. The proposed method considers the capacitive effect through an exact line segment model for overhead distribution lines, using only local voltages and currents as input data. Validation is done through numerical simulations using the IEEE system 13 buses test feeder, a real distribution system from the RGE Sul Power Utility (Southern Brazil), and a real high impedance fault recorded from a digital relay. Comparative test results with the state-of-the-art highlights the method's high accuracy, indicating potential aspects for real life application. Overall average errors of 0.3% considering a complete HIF model were obtained, and a 1.39% error considering a real HIF in a rural feeder. The formulation is currently used by protection engineers at RGE Sul as a reliability oriented tool.
Statistical decision-tree based fault classification scheme for protection of power transmission lines
 This paper presents a statistical algorithm for classification of faults on power transmission lines. The proposed algorithm is based upon the wavelet transform of three phase currents measured at the sending end of a line and the Classification and Regression Tree (CART) method, a commonly available statistical method. Wavelet transform of current signal provides hidden information of a fault situation as an input to CART algorithm, which is used to classify different types of faults. The proposed technique is simulated using MATLAB/SIMULINK software and it is tested upon the data created with the fault analysis of the 400 kV sample transmission line considering wide variations in the operating conditions. The classification results are also compared with the results obtained using back propagation neural network.
A practical first-zone distance relaying algorithm for long parallel transmission lines
 This paper presents a novel non-iterative first-zone distance relaying algorithm for single-line-to-ground fault detection in long parallel transmission lines. The conventional distance protection scheme is based on the series impedance line model, in which the shunt capacitance and propagation effects are neglected. Such a simplification, despite being adequate for short lines, can lead to significant errors in the apparent impedance estimation for long-distance faults. The proposed algorithm is derived from a distributed parameter line model applicable to long parallel lines, in which the shunt capacitance and mutual impedance and admittance are all fully considered. Sliding faults simulations were carried out in MATLAB using symmetrical components and graph theory assuming two long parallel transmission lines. It is shown that the proposed algorithm leads to a very good agreement between the apparent and positive-sequence impedances to the faults for line lengths up to approximately 800 km, without using iterative methods. This indicates that the proposed algorithm prevents the distance relay from underreaching for long-distance faults in parallel lines, without additional computational cost.
Determination of voltage stress in case of operation of a hybrid HVAC/HVDC transmission line
 This paper is a study of the proposal to convert one of four 380 kV AC circuits on the same transmission line to a bipolar DC circuit with metallic return, using one of the three phase conductors. This study examines the voltage stresses and line insulation on the DC circuit.
Parallel processing algorithm for railway signal fault diagnosis data based on cloud computing
 To explore the data processing of high-speed railway fault signal diagnosis based on MapReduce algorithm, the partitioning strategy of data flow was improved, and Bias classification algorithm was used to model and classify data. In MapReduce parallelization process, the data partition matrix Tk was stored in line segmentation, the computing load was distributed in every node of cluster, and the time consumption of mobile data matrix and the consumption of partitioned matrix were calculated. Results show that the algorithm proposed could reduce the amount of computation in the execution process, greatly reduce the memory space consumption, and improve the counting speed in railway signal system.
A multiconductor transmission line model for grounding grids
 In this paper, a new approach for modeling grounding grids excited by lightning currents is proposed. The model is based on considering each set of parallel conductors in the grounding grid as a multiconductor transmission line. Electrical parameters are calculated and modal analysis is used in order to obtain a two port network representation for each set of parallel conductors in the grid. The different two port networks are interconnected following the pattern of connections in the grid; then, the system equations are reduced in order to obtain currents and voltages in the different grid junctions. This approach facilitates calculating the transient leakage currents into the soil and therefore the induced voltage on the soil surface. Finally, the transient step and touch voltages are calculated. The computer model was validated by means of an extensive comparison between obtained results with the proposed model, measurements and calculated results published in the literature. The validation process was extended successfully to grounding grids and vertical and horizontal electrodes.
An HVDC line parameters estimation method without optimization
 This paper proposes a method to estimate HVDC line parameters. After a reminder on the transfer functions that characterize the dynamic behavior of a DC line, link between these transfer functions resonance frequencies and the line parameters is established. This link is then used to estimate the line parameters, the resonance frequencies being determined using the power spectral density of voltage signals at the input and output of the line. A numerical example highlights the efficiency of the proposed method which is finally reduced to a very simple algorithm. This algorithm does not involve optimization, thereby reducing the calculation time and the resources required for its implementation. This new estimation method can be used for fault detection and location.
Sensors Installation Guide to Monitor Automatic Transmission Performance
 This paper aims to answer a key question during the design and development of a new product i.e. how many and where should one install the sensors to ensure effective health monitoring. In this paper, a sensor installation guideline for a 4R automatic transmission is presented. The guideline helps to visualize different possible combinations of sensors and their locations such that all malfunctions are monitored. The guideline is an outcome of structural analysis conducted on a kinematic model of the transmission. Faults in sensors, clutches and band brakes have been considered. The list of sensors include speed sensors to monitor shaft speeds and pressure sensors that can sense if the clutches/brakes are engaged or disengaged. It is concluded that turbine speed sensor, output shaft speed sensor and a pressure sensor can help to isolate all possible faults in the transmission under consideration.
Line-Fault Ride-Through (LFRT) Capabilities of DFIG Wind Turbine Connected to the Power System
 With increased penetration of wind power into electrical grids, DFIG wind turbines are largely deployed due to their variable speed feature and hence influencing system dynamics. According to grid codes issued by utilities, tripping of wind turbines following power system faults is not allowed. Besides, to provide voltage support to the grid, reactive current supply is necessary. This paper studies the power flow (PF) of two different networks, the first is a transmission network and the second is a distribution one, A wind Doubly-Fed Induction Generator (DFIG) turbine is injected to these different networks. A line fault right through (LFRT) is applied on each network and the power flow results are given and compared, then a new solution is proposed to connect the wind turbine to the distribution network with a down transformer to not disconnect the wind turbine during the LFRT, the power system analysis toolbox (PSAT) is used in this work.
Generic scalable fault diagnosis system for multimachine power grids
 A new approach for fault diagnosis in power grids is presented in this paper. The approach is capable of detecting, classifying and locating, with high speed and accuracy, any type of faults anywhere in the grid using bus voltage or line current measurements only. Fault detection and classification is accomplished by applying logic on measured data while fault location is determined by fault location identification functions generated off-line by using a least-square support vector machine. The high speed and accuracy aspects of the proposed approach are verified through case studies in three test power systems.
A comprehensive review on DC arc faults and their diagnosis methods in photovoltaic systems
 Integration of renewable energy including solar energy is growing faster than ever before. Solar energy supplies more than 1.3% of global power, and it is predicted to become the largest electricity source by 2050 with about 11% of global power consumption. However, the improper installation, non-frequently scheduled maintenance, and aging effect can accelerate the deterioration of PV system components, which directly increase the possibility of arc fault occurrence. The undetected arc faults pose a severe fire hazard to residential, commercial, and utility-scaled PV systems. To deliver electricity in a safe and reliable manner, such a dangerous event must be detected at early stage. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the-state-of-art techniques for DC arc faults detection in photovoltaic systems (PV). Different methods and the features used for detection are discussed and compared in detail. This paper also emphasizes the importance of DC arc fault simulation for characteristics study and fault diagnosis purpose. Several DC arc fault models have been reviewed and compared.
A comprehensive study on different types of faults and detection techniques for solar photovoltaic system
 Monitoring systems are essential to maintain optimal performance of photovoltaic (PV) systems. A critical aspect in such monitoring systems is the fault diagnosis technique being used. The role of a fault detection and diagnosis technique is to identify the causes affecting the real-time energy production and/or smooth functioning of PV systems. Over the past decade, various fault detection methods were reported in literature. Among all the fault detection techniques reported, some paid significant attention only on faults that occur in the PV system, some on faults on DC side of the PV system while the rest focused on AC side faults. For the first time, this paper provides a comprehensive review of popular fault detection techniques, addressing all major types of faults in PV systems. Detailed insights of PV fault detection techniques along with their relative performances are covered. A new fault detection technique is also proposed to identify the type and location (module level) of a fault. This review enables the reader to get acquaintance with major aspects/considerations in developing/choosing an effective yet viable fault detection technique for small and medium scale PV systems.
Fast fault detection and classification based on a combination of wavelet singular entropy theory and fuzzy logic in distribution lines in the presence of distributed generations
 This paper proposes a new method of fault detection and classification in asymmetrical distribution systems with dispersed generation to detect islanding and perform protective action based on applying a combination of wavelet singular entropy and fuzzy logic. In this method, positive components of currents at common coupling points are decomposed to adjust detailed coefficients of wavelet transforms and singular value matrices, and expected entropy values are calculated via stochastic process. Indexes are defined based on the wavelet singular entropy in positive components and three phase currents to detect and classify the fault. This protection scheme is put forward for fault detection and is investigated in different types of faults such as single-phase to ground, double-phase to ground, three-phase to ground and line to line in distribution lines in the presence of distributed generations, and different locations of faults are verified when the distributed generation is connected to the utility. The major priority of the proposed protection scheme is its reduction in time (10 ms from the event inception) in distinguishing islanding and protection transmission lines in the presence of distributed generations.
Mechanical behaviors and failure mechanisms of buried polyethylene pipes crossing active strike-slip faults
 Polyethylene (PE) pipes are widely used in gas transmission projects due to their excellent performances. Earthquake is destructive and difficult to predicted, which is one of the major disasters caused PE pipe failure. The study was conducted on the mechanical behaviors and failure mechanisms of buried PE pipes under fault movement, and the effects of gas pressure, fault dislocation, soil and pipe size on the mechanical behavior of PE pipes were discussed. The study indicates that gas pressure has a less effect on the mechanical behavior of PE pipe. Under faults, the flatness curve of PE pipe is distributed symmetrically with respect to the fault plane. Deformation rules of PE pipe in different stratums are similar, while the pipe deformation is the largest in clay and it is smallest in sand. The greater the standard pipe size, the greater the diameter flatness coefficient is. The larger the diameter, the smaller the pipe diameter flattening parameter is. PE pipes with a larger standard dimension ratio of a fitting (SDR) and a smaller diameter are prone to failure in fault zone. The results can provide a basis for gas pipe design, laying, testing, and evaluation.
Non-linear representation of voltage sag profiles for fault location in distribution networks
 Fault location for distribution networks with multiple laterals would requires additional information such as from fault indicators and protective devices. As SCADA systems to provide such information are limited in 11 kV or lower voltage distribution networks, effective fault location method that only use information from a measurement at primary substation is needed. This paper presents the application of calculated non-linear voltage sag profiles and voltage sag measurement at primary substation to locate a fault in distribution networks. The proposed method firstly identifies the faulted section. From the indentified section, fault distance is calculated. The method has been tested under different fault scenarios that include various fault resistance, loading variation and data measurement errors. The results indicate the possibility of using this method to support automatic fault management system.
Sparse classification based on dictionary learning for planet bearing fault identification
 Planet bearing vibrations feature high complexity due to the intricate kinematics and multiple modulation effects. This leads to difficulty in planet bearing fault identification. In order to overcome this difficulty, a sparse classification framework based on dictionary learning is proposed. It operates directly on raw signals and is free from steps involved in conventional pattern identification such as feature design which requires prior expertise. First, a raw signal matrix is generated by partitioning the raw signal into segments, where each segment in all signal states has the same number of data points, and the length of the segment should guarantee that at least two adjacent fault impulses with the maximum interval can occur. Then, a dictionary initialized with the training sample set is learnt from the signal matrix, based on which the sparse representation is carried out afterwards. A dictionary learnt over signals under a certain state is best suited for signal reconstruction under the same state only but cannot recover signals well under other states. Inspired by this fact, sparse classification can be accomplished by comparing signal recovery errors over dictionaries under different states. The proposed method is validated using the experimental data of a planetary gearbox. Localized faults on the outer race, roller element and inner race of planet bearings are all identified successfully.
Anomaly detection and fault analysis of wind turbine components based on deep learning network
 Continuous monitoring of wind turbine health using early fault detection methods can improve turbine reliability and reduce maintenance costs before they reach a catastrophic stage. To achieve anomaly detection and fault analysis of wind turbine components, this paper proposes a deep learning method based on a deep auto-encoder (DAE) network using operational supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) data of wind turbines. First, a component DAE network model using multiple restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM) was constructed. Previously collected normal SCADA data from wind turbines were used to train this multilayer network model layer-wise to extract the relationships between SCADA variables. Then, a reconstruction error (Re) was calculated by using the DAE network input and its output reconstruction value, which was defined as the condition detection index to reflect the component health condition. Due to the acute changes and disturbances of wind speed in actual operation, the calculated detection index always has an extreme distribution that can cause false alarms. Therefore, an adaptive threshold determined by the extreme value theory was proposed and used as the rule of anomaly judgement. The method can not only implement early warning of fault components but also deduce the physical location of a faulted component by DAE residuals. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method was verified by some reported failure cases of wind turbine components.
A survey on model-based fault diagnosis for linear discrete time-varying systems
 To meet the rising demands for safety and reliability of modern industrial control systems, the model-based fault diagnosis problem has attracted much attention in the past few decades both from the academic communities and in practical applications. Among the rich body of literature, the majority of the results are proposed for linear time invariant systems despite the fact that most practical processes are inherently time-varying by nature and discretized for online implementations. Recently, with the ever-increasing system complexity and scale, the model-based fault diagnosis issue for linear discrete time-varying (LDTV) systems has become a hot research topic of both theoretical importance and practical significance, and a great number of results have been reported with many open problems deserving further investigation. To reflect the latest progress in this emerging research branch, this survey aims to provide a timely reference to readers interested in this topic. More specifically, in this survey, the techniques for model-based fault diagnosis for LDTV systems are classified into observer-based methods, parity space-based approaches and parameter estimation schemes, which constitute the three main parts of this survey. The background and the latest progress for each class of these techniques are comparatively discussed with particular focuses on the fault detection and the fault estimation issues. Additionally, an overview on their practical applications to specific industrial plants is provided. Furthermore, the possible future research directions concerning the model-based fault diagnosis for LDTV processes are pointed out, followed by comprehensive concluding remarks.
Employing instantaneous positive sequence symmetrical components for voltage sag source relative location
 Modern industrial facilities are vulnerable to voltage sags and short interruptions as they were in the past to sustainable interruptions. Therefore, modern reliability assessment should include voltage sags and short interruptions. Hence, in order to improve power system reliability it is necessary to mitigate these voltage variations. One of the first steps towards this objective is to locate the source of these disturbances. This paper investigates a number of methods for sag source relative location. Said methods are based on different electrical parameters. Using instantaneous positive sequence components, five novel extended methods for voltage sag source location are proposed for accommodating the transient nature of voltage sag events and for improving unsuitable operation of methods on asymmetrical sags and earth faults. Due to the fact that short circuits are the main reason resulting in voltage sags, this paper focuses on the location of voltage sag sources due to line faults. A comparative analysis between the existing methods and the five novel extended methods is performed by applying extensive numerical simulations in a Brazilian regional transmission and sub-transmission utility. Finally, the effectiveness of all methods is obtained. The results show that the novel extended methods are more effective and among them, the extended methods based on reactive power can locate sag sources with an accuracy of 88%. Also, implementation of the novel extended methods on signal processors is easier with respect to the already implemented methods.
Analysis and validation of wavelet transform based DC fault detection in HVDC system
 Fault detection plays an important role in both conventional AC and upcoming DC power systems. This paper aims to study the application of discrete wavelet transform (WT) for detecting the DC fault in the high voltage DC (HVDC) system. The methods of choosing the mother wavelet suited for DC fault is presented, based on degree of correlation to the fault pattern and the time delay. The wavelet analysis is performed on a multi-terminal HVDC system, built in PSCAD/EMTDC software. Its performance is judged for critical parameter like the fault location, resistance and distance. The analysis is further extended to validation using results from experiment, which is obtained from a lab-scale DC hardware setup. Load change, one of the transient disturbances in power system, is carried out to understand the effectiveness of the wavelet transform to differentiate it from the DC fault. The noise in the experimental result gives rise to non-zero wavelet coefficient during the steady-state. This can be improved by removing the unwanted noise using right filter while still retaining the fault-induced transient. The wavelet transform is compared with short-time Fourier transform to highlight the issue with window size and noise.
A data indicator-based deep belief networks to detect multiple faults in axial piston pumps
 Detecting faults in axial piston pumps is of significance to enhance the reliability and security of hydraulic systems. However, it is difficult to detect multiple faults in the hydraulic electromechanical coupling systems because the fault mechanism of some faults is unclear. In this paper, a method using deep belief networks (DBNs) is proposed to detect multiple faults in axial piston pumps. Firstly, for each individual fault, all the data indicators extracted from the raw signals in time domain, frequency domain and time-frequency domain are calculated to construct training and testing samples. Then, the constructed samples are fed into DBNs to classify the multiple faults in axial piston pumps. With restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) stacked layer by layer, DBNs can automatically learn fault features. Numerical simulations using the benchmark data of five faults in rolling bearings are classified by the present method to select the relative optimal combination of indicators. The classification results are also compared with those commonly used support vector machine (SVM) and artificial neural network (ANN) to manifest the classification accuracy of the present method. Experimental investigations are performed to classify four faults in an axial piston pump. The classification accuracy ratio is 97.40%, which confirms the feasibility and effectiveness of multiple faults detection in axial piston pumps using DBNs.
A novel thickness detection method of ice covering on overhead transmission line
 Overhead transmission lines are always covered by ice in freezing weather. It's difficult to know about the icing condition of the lines because they usually have large area-span. They will be stretched under the combined action of conductor quality, wind force and ice-covering. This paper deduces the relationship of conductor-weight ratio, iceweight ratio, wind-pressure ratio and conductor length, and proposes a novel thickness detection method of ice covering on overhead line. This method uses travelling wave location equipments to collect travelling wave signal which a circuit breaker generates. The signal's arrival time is detected by Hilbert-Huang Transformation. Then the length of the line can be calculated. Finally, the average thickness of ice covering on transmission line would be calculated by using the formula of the relationship between comprehensive conductor load ratio and ice thickness. Simulation results indicate that the method can effectively calculate the average thickness of ice covering on line. It provides important reference for power workers to know about the icing condition promptly.
Heterogeneous fault diagnosis for wireless sensor networks
 Fault diagnosis has been considered as a very challenging problem in wireless sensor network (WSN) research. Faulty nodes having different behavior such as hard, soft, intermittent, and transient fault are called as heterogeneous faults in wireless sensor networks. This paper presents a heterogeneous fault diagnosis protocol for wireless sensor networks. The proposed protocol consists of three phases, such as clustering phase, fault detection phase, and fault classification phase to diagnose the heterogeneous faulty nodes in the wireless sensor networks. The protocol strategy is based on time out mechanism to detect the hard faulty nodes, and analysis of variance method (ANOVA test) to detect the soft, intermittent, and transient faulty nodes in the network. The feed forward probabilistic neural network (PNN) technique is used to classify the different types of faulty nodes in the network. The performance of the proposed heterogeneous fault diagnosis protocol is evaluated using network simulator NS-2.35. The evaluation of the proposed model is also carried out by the testbed experiment in an indoor laboratory environment and outdoor environment.
Research on Intelligent Fault Location for Multistage in Large-scale Distributed Measurement Environment
 Based on the analysis of fault location methods, this paper presents an intelligent method on the basis of classification in large-scale measurement system. Three independent functional units, which are data acquisition unit (DAU), data transmission unit (DTU) and terminal computer (TC), are defined in distributed environment. And then, a fault localization method corresponding to all levels are proposed in detail. Finally we conduct experiments on our experimental platform, and results show that our approach can accurately and quickly achieve the mission of fault location in large-scale distributed measurement system.
High resistive zero-crossing instant faults detection and location scheme based on wavelet analysis
 This paper proposes an effective high resistive zero-crossing fault detection scheme based on transient signals obtained at single-end of the transmission line. The proposed scheme implements wavelet transform to provide time resolution for the high frequency components of the current fault transients. These signals are decomposed into their modal components: aerial and ground modes and, taking into account the fault inception angle; it implements one of both modes to detect faults in the power system. The proposed scheme also provides the distance to fault using the wavelet modulus maxima (WMM) technique. The performance of the proposed scheme has been evaluated in a 132 kV transmission system modeled in PSCAD/EMTDC, and results have been presented considering total harmonic distortion of voltage (THDV) waveform and for varying ground resistivity, fault resistance and fault inception angle. The response time of the proposed algorithm has been compared with Fourier and differential equations algorithms and conventional wavelet transform scheme.
Fault tolerant position-mooring control for offshore vessels
 Fault-tolerance is crucial to maintain safety in offshore operations. The objective of this paper is to show how systematic analysis and design of fault-tolerance is conducted for a complex automation system, exemplified by thruster assisted Position-mooring. Using redundancy as required by classification societies' class notations for offshore position controlled vessels, the paper shows how violations of normal behaviour of main components can be detected and isolated. Using a functional service philosophy, diagnosis procedures are auto-generated based on provable correct graph analysis methods. Functional faults that are only detectable, are rendered isolable through an active isolation approach. Once functional faults are isolated, they are handled by fault accommodation techniques to meet overall control objectives specified by class requirements. The paper illustrates the generic methodology by a system to handle faults in mooring lines, sensors or thrusters. Simulations and model basin experiments are carried out to validate the concept for scenarios with single or multiple faults. The results demonstrate that enhanced availability and safety are obtainable with this design approach. While methods are introduced at a tutorial level, the paper is original by providing a total Position-mooring system design that ensures resilience to any single fault and to selected multiple faults.
A comprehensive review on protection challenges and fault diagnosis in PV systems
 With the exponential growth in global photovoltaic (PV) power capacity, protection of PV systems has gained prodigious importance in last few decades. Even with the use of standard protection devices in a PV system, faults occurring in a PV array may remain undetected. Inspired by the ever increasing demand for a reliable fault detection technique, several advanced techniques have been proposed in literature; especially in the last few years. Hence, this paper carries out an in depth analysis of various fault occurrences, protection challenges and ramifications due to undetected faults in PV systems. Furthermore, with a widespread literature, the paper critically reviews numerous fault detection algorithms/techniques available for PV systems which are proven to be effective and feasible to implement. The proposed study is not only limited to surveying the existing techniques but also analyzes the performance of each technique with an emphasis on its: 1) Approach, 2) Sensor requirements, 3) Ability to diagnose and localize faults, 4) Integration complexity, 5) Accuracy, 6) Applicability and 7) Implementation cost. Overall, this paper is envisioned to avail the researchers working in the field of PV systems with a valuable resource, which will assist them to enrich their research works.
An accurate fault location algorithm using synchronized sampling
 This paper introduces new fault location algorithms based on synchronized sampling. A time domain model of a transmission line is used as a basis for the algorithm development. Samples of voltages and currents at the ends of a transmission line are taken synchronously and used to calculate fault location. The paper discusses two different algorithm forms utilizing two line models. A number of tests are performed using EMTP simulations of faults. The algorithm results show high accuracy while the computational burden is moderate.
Performance evaluation of distance protection of transmission lines connected with VSC-HVDC system using closed-loop test in RTDS
 Voltage Source Converter (VSC) based High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) can control voltage and power flow on ac transmission lines with the priority of reactive current support during the fault as suggested in the grid codes for HVDC connections. Furthermore, the fault current contribution from the converter is limited in magnitude and modified in the waveform in order to protect the power electronic devices during the fault, which on the other hand affects the apparent impedance seen by the distance relay. This paper addresses the challenges faced by the distance protection of transmission lines connected with VSC-HVDC system by performing a closed-loop test of a commercial distance relay using Real Time Digital Simulator (RTDS). The power system with VSC is modeled in detail under a more realistic scenario in RTDS so that the performance of the distance protection can be tested under near to actual field conditions. The responses of the commercial distance relay for balanced and unbalanced faults are analyzed. The oscillograph data of the voltage, current and protection bits recorded by the relay are extracted and compared with the simulation results.
A systematic fuzzy rule based approach for fault classification in transmission lines
 The paper presents a new approach for fault classification in transmission line using a systematic fuzzy rule based approach. Fault classification is one of the important requirements in distance relaying for identifying the accurate phases involved in the fault process. The proposed technique starts with preprocessing the fault current signal using advanced time–frequency transform such as S-transform to compute various statistical features. After the required features are extracted, the Decision Tree (DT), a knowledge representation method, is used for initial classification. From the DT classification boundaries, the fuzzy membership functions (MFs) and corresponding fuzzy rule-base is developed for final classification. Thus a systematic fuzzy rule base is developed for fault classification, reducing the redundancies and complexities involved compared to Heuristic fuzzy rule-based approach. Also a qualitative comparison is made between S-transform and Wavelet transform, where S-transform based DT-fuzzy provides highly improved results compared to the later during simulation as well as experimental tests.
Transmission system protection screening for integration of offshore wind power plants
 This paper develops an efficient methodology for protection screening of large-scale transmission systems as part of the planning studies for the integration of offshore wind power plants into the power grid. This methodology avails to determine whether any upgrades are required to the protection system. The uncertainty is considered in form of variability of the power generation by offshore wind power plant. This paper uses the integration of a 1000 MW offshore wind power plant operating in Lake Erie into the FirstEnergy/PJM service territory as a case study. This study uses a realistic model of a 63,000-bus test system that represents the U.S. Eastern Interconnection.
Transmission line theory
 To someone with a superficial knowledge of electrical technology it seems obvious that when two physically separated points are connected using a length of conducting wire, and assuming the resistance of the wire can be ignored, the voltage at the remote end of the wire will be the same as that at the source. In other words, the physical length of the wire and physical location of the source and destination, again ignoring resistive effects, are immaterial to understanding of how the circuit works.
Use of time delays between modal components in wavelet based fault location
 This paper presents an improved fault location method based on the traveling wave theory of the transmission lines. Fault transients recorded at one end of a transmission line are processed to determine the distance from the fault location. Wavelet transform is utilized for this purpose. The proposed method also takes advantage of the different travel times of the modal components in differentiating between close-in and remote end faults. The approach has the advantages of being independent of the fault impedance, mutual coupling effects and series compensation capacitors. The method's performance for typical faults is illustrated using transient simulations obtained by an electromagnetic transients program.
A review of stochastic resonance in rotating machine fault detection
 Condition-based monitoring and machine fault detection play important roles in industry as they can ensure safety and reduce breakdown loss. Weak signal detection is an essential stage in many signal processing-based machine fault detection methods because the acquired machine signals are always corrupted by heavy background noise. Stochastic resonance (SR) is a nonlinear phenomenon in which the weak signal can be enhanced with the assistance of proper noise. Due to this distinct merit, SR has been extensively investigated in rotating machine fault detection. Given this, the present study is committed to providing a comprehensive review of SR from history to state-of-the-art methods and finally to research prospects, along with the applications in rotating machine fault detection. First, the classical SR theory including the history, merits and limitations is introduced and discussed, and the basic research progress of SR is reviewed. Second, the modified SR methods designed for processing the rotating machine signals are reviewed and summarized. Third, applications of SR for analyzing different kinds of rotating machine fault signals are introduced. Finally, the open problems, challenges and research prospects of SR in rotating machine fault detection are discussed.
The multi-scale generation and transmission expansion model
 One of the challenges in electrical grid expansion planning is how to expand the infrastructure while considering fundamental changes in demand and supply, in part due to “game-changing” consumers, such as electric vehicles (EVs), and optional distributed generation (DG) by consumers. This work proposes an optimization model that addresses the generation and transmission expansion of the grid, including the facilities' locations, upgrades, and the network's design decisions. In contrast to some other models, it is not static in time: the model considers time-dependent demand in short-term (hourly) and long-term (yearly) variations. The proposed optimization model considers energy loss, transmission substations upgrades, constraints such as demand, capacities, and more. The model minimizes the long-term costs of infrastructure investments and the operational costs of generation. The work is supplemented by numerical experiments of the model in simulated scenarios. Sensitivity analysis conducted on some of the model features, demonstrates the importance of including them in the model.
Experimental studies of fault location in PV module strings
 Two methods for the fault location in PV module string were experimentally studied. One was the earth capacitance measurement (ECM) and the other was the time-domain reflectometry (TDR). By ECM, the disconnection position in the string was estimated by the earth capacitance value without the effects of the irradiance change, and the estimation error was small enough to determine the disconnection position in actual repair/maintenance operation. On the other hand, TDR could detect the degradation (series resistance increase) and the positions in the string by the change of response waveform.
Frequency response analysis (FRA) of transformers as a tool for fault detection and location: A review
 Power transformers are one of the most important components of the electrical power networks. A wide range of mechanical and electrical stresses in addition to the aging could cause failures in these apparatuses. As a result, evaluating the condition of the transformers during their lifetime is crucial to the power network reliability and service continuity. A large number of different fault diagnosis techniques are introduced for this purpose. Frequency Response Analysis (FRA) is sensitive to the great number of electrical or mechanical changes in the transformers that could occur during the manufacturing, transportation, installation, maintenance or operation of the device. Therefore, FRA is considered among the powerful methods of transformers’ condition assessment. This paper explains the frequency response analysis of transformers method, its application and test procedure as well as providing a comprehensive review of the researches and attempts that are done on different aspects of this field for enhancing quality and repeatability of the test and the interpretation of the results.
Optimum Placement of Fault Current Limiter in 11 kV Distribution System
 Presently a number of radial distribution systems are in operation supplying power to utilities. Due to rapid growth of loads in a distribution system and more network connections, high current flows in the event of short circuit faults in the system. In such cases, the relay co-ordination is disturbed and hence the equipment like circuit breakers needs to be replaced with enhanced ratings. So that relay can handle the new operating currents which are often expensive retrofit costs. In order to mitigate the consequences of huge fault currents in a system a Fault Current Limiter (FCL) is proposed and discussed in this paper. FCLs can be fixed in a power system to enable circuit breakers to operate within their operating range. This paper proposes the application of deterministic method of establishing the optimal placement of FCL in a distribution system. An IEEE 6 bus system has been considered for fault analysis and placement of FCL to reduce the impact of fault.
Unsymmetrical opening of mutually coupled transmission lines
 The aim of this paper is to present a systematic approach of solving unsymmetrical faults due to unsymmetrical opening of mutually coupled transmission lines. Opening a transmission line is equivalent to adding, in parallel with it, another transmission line but having the negative impedance of the same line. This is straightforward if the line is not mutually coupled with other lines in the system. Mutual coupling between parallel and adjacent lines exist due to proximity. Such mutual coupling must be taken into consideration when modifying the bus impedance matrix for the purpose of fault studies due to the opening of mutually coupled transmission lines. In this paper, a systematic approach to applying the bus impedance matrix method for faults involving the switching of mutually coupled lines is presented. The approach is applied to several cases of simulation of symmetrical and unsymmetrical switching of mutually coupled transmission lines.
Handling of unbalanced faults in HVDC-connected wind power plants
 High-voltage DC (HVDC) connections enable integration of wind power plants located very far from shore. The decoupled AC offshore grid comprises multiple WT converters, and the voltage magnitude and frequency is primarily controlled by the offshore high-voltage DC voltage-source converter (VSC-HVDC). Faults in the offshore grid challenge the connected converters to provide an adequate response improving the overall fault behavior. Of special interest are asymmetrical faults due to the resulting unbalanced voltage conditions. This article addresses such conditions in the offshore grid and analyzes the impact on the offshore grid behavior for different converter contributions. Four fault ride-through strategies are studied for the WT converters. The effect of over-modulation of the converter voltages during such voltage conditions is highlighted. A test system is defined to analyze the fault and post-fault behavior. It is found that voltage support from the WT converters in both positive and negative sequence shows the best performance compared to controlled negative sequence current suppression. This scheme helps additionally the VSC-HVDC AC voltage control to return quickly to normal operation. To validate this statement simulations are performed for line-to-line (LL) and single line-to-ground (SLG) faults in immediate vicinity of the VSC-HVDC.
Faults locations in automated distribution system
 This paper presents new techniques for locating short circuit and open conductor faults on automated distribution system. This is a unique method where short circuit and open conductor faults are treated simultaneously. The proposed fault location scheme is capable of accurately identifying the zone in which fault occurs. Temporary faults are also detected which may not result in a blown fuse. Data is made available to the substation remote terminal unit from various automated distribution system equipments. Decision is taken based upon the magnitude of fundamental frequency component of voltage and current phasor. Testing of proposed fault location method has been demonstrated on the laboratory model for its practical use. Analogues simulation results are obtained using electromagnetic transients program (EMTP).
Multi objective optimal allocation of fault current limiters in power system
 Transmission systems, connection of distributed generation to the grid are increased due to increase in power demands. This fact causes the increase in short circuit level of power networks. The occurrence of fault in such networks leads to large short circuit currents throughout the system, which may exceed the rating of existing circuit breakers and can damage system equipment. There are some approaches to reduce this fault current such as power network reinforcement and utilization of fault current limiter (FCLs) in power systems. Power system reinforcement is too difficult if not impractical. Therefore, the utilization of FCLs can provide an effective way to suppress fault currents. The effectiveness of FCL depends on the number of FCLs and their installation location. In this paper, a novel approach is presented to determine the optimal number and location of FCLs to improve the power network reliability and fault current reduction based on different conflicting objective functions. IEEE 39 BUS system and IEEE 57 BUS system are considered to evaluate the effectiveness and feasibility of the proposed method. The objective functions considered for the optimal allocation are reliability of power system, economic impact and short circuit current reduction. Unlike what has been previously done in literature, in this paper Pareto based optimization algorithms, namely non-dominated sorting algorithm, multiobjective particle swarm optimization and multiobjective evolutionary algorithm based on decomposition, are utilized to deal with this problem. The use of these methods made it possible to obtain the Pareto optimal front in which these objective functions are optimized simultaneously.
Evaluation of relaying impedance algorithms for series-compensated line
 A group of the algorithms of fault-loop impedance determination for digital distance relay applied for protecting a series-compensated line has been considered. The algorithms gathered in two basic families have been tested: (i) the methods based upon Fourier orthogonal components with using both full-cycle and half-cycle data windows; (ii) four variants of the method founded on differential equation techniques, i.e. with applied various digital differentiation rules, with included additional pre-filtration and combined with orthogonal components determination. Extensive simulation studies have been performed for comparing the calculation techniques. Recommendations with respect to impedance algorithms suitable for protection of a series-compensated line have been stated. The other studied algorithm is related to fault direction discrimination for the considered series-compensated line arrangement. Sample simulation results have been presented and discussed.
Performance evaluation of IEEE 802.16 real time polling and unsolicited grant service scheduling for protecting transmission and sub-transmission systems with multi-terminals
 One of the major challenges faced by future energy transmission grids is the issue of how to integrate intermittent renewable energy generation. The other problem is how the transmission and sub-transmission systems with multi-terminals are integrated in one grid. Tapping a line is an economical solution to avoid building new stations, but that creates its own operational and protection challenges. The above limitations are future challenges for the protection of modern power systems. In this paper significant emphasis is placed on the communication part, and the theory and benefits of new protection techniques applied to the power systems are clearly indicated. The wireless “WiMAX” based protection “W-Protection” is a new concept for protecting multi-zones as one unit zone using coordination logic. The W-Protection produces new protection solution to properly identify the faulted zone using the wireless networks such as the IEEE 802.16 based WiMAX technology. The IEDs communication traffic requirements and the application models that map them over the real time polling service (rtPS) and unsolicited grant service (UGS) scheduling services of the IEEE 802.16 standard are extensively studied. The communication between IEDs and the Master Protection Center “MPC” using UGS and rtPS-QoS scheduling service available in WiMAX is also discussed. A discrete event model using OPNET simulation package is used for evaluating the performance of rtPS and USG scheduling services in case of latency. The initial results indicated that IEEE 802.16 network can meet the delay requirement of protection applications.
Fault Permeability and CO2 Storage
 Faults comprise zones of crushed, sheared and fractured rock that have the potential to influence the migration of stored CO2. Fault-zone permeabilities of 10-9 to 10-19 m2 are controlled by many interdependent factors including; fault-zone architecture and rock types, mechanical strength and permeability of host rock, orientation and magnitude of in situ stresses, fracture aperture size and connectivity, fluid properties and burial history. Mitigating the risk of CO2 migration via faults to the atmosphere or into economically valuable resources requires an understanding of the conditions under which they promote fluid flow from the reservoir. In situ flow data from natural seeps indicate that faults can promote the upward flow of CO2, with flux rates being greatest where the highest densities of fractures occur. Flow simulation modelling suggests that low-permeability fault rock may compartmentalise reservoirs giving rise to increased pressures and promoting upward flow of CO2. Migration rates along faults of up to 1000 m/yr are possible and could produce leakage rates of up to 15000 t/yr at natural seeps. These rates are likely to be site specific and positively related to reservoir pressures. Present understanding of fault hydraulic properties is generally not sufficiently complete to predict when and where faults will influence CO2 migration. To improve understanding of fault hydraulic properties, studies of outcrop, analogue and numerical models are required. In situ flow measurements are critical for testing site-specific and generic fault fluid-flow models that are important in establishing guidelines for the inclusion of faults in risk assessment and determining what mitigation measures are most appropriate.
Pressure transient analysis during CO2 push-pull tests into faults for EGS characterization
 With the goal of detecting and characterizing faults and fractures in enhanced geothermal systems (EGS), a new technology involving CO2 push-pull testing, active-source geophysical imaging, and well logging has recently been proposed. This technique takes advantage of (1) the contrasting properties of supercritical CO2 and water which cause CO2 to appear distinct from surrounding brine in seismic and other geophysical logging approaches, (2) the non-wetting nature of CO2 which keeps it localized to the faults and fractures to create contrast potentially sufficient for active seismic and well-logging approaches to image faults and fracture zones at EGS sites. In this study, we evaluate the feasibility of using pressure transient monitoring during CO2 push-pull tests to complement active seismic and wireline well logging for EGS characterization. For this purpose, we developed a 2D model of a prototypical geothermal site (Desert Peak, NV) that includes a single fault. The fault zone consists of a slip plane, fault gouge, and damage zone, and is bounded by the surrounding matrix of the country rock. Through numerical simulation using iTOUGH2, we found that the pressure transient at the monitoring wells in the fault gouge shows unique traits due to the multiphase flow conditions developed by CO2 injection, and varies sensitively on the arrival of the CO2 plume and the degree of CO2 saturation. A sensitivity analysis shows the pressure transient is most sensitive to the fault gouge permeability, but also depends on multiphase flow parameters and the boundary conditions of the fault. An inversion study reveals that the fault gouge permeability can be best estimated with the pressure transient data, whereas additional CO2 saturation data do not improve the accuracy of the inversion significantly.
On the use of continuous-wavelet transform for fault location in distribution power systems
 The paper illustrates a procedure based on the continuous-wavelet transform (CWT) for the analysis of voltage transients due to line faults, and discusses its application to fault location in power distribution systems. The analysis carried out shows that correlation exists between typical frequencies of the CWT-transformed signals and specific paths in the network covered by the traveling waves originated by the fault. The paper presents a procedure for determining fault location in MV distribution systems, which exploits the above-mentioned correlation. The MV distribution system analysed in the paper is accurately represented by means of an EMTP model; various fault types and network characteristics are examined. The paper presents also the basic concepts of a measurement and fault location prototype system with distributed architecture.
A novel unit protective relaying concept based on current signal sequential overlapping derivative transform: Two sides fed transmission line application
 This paper presents a novel and accurate unit protective relaying concept for EHV transmission lines. The proposed protective concept implements a simple current signal sequential over lapping derivative, SOD transform to detect transmission line transient disturbances. It uses both polarity and magnitude of the first disturbance, arrived at relay location, to identify internal and external faults rapidly. The proposed unit protective relaying concept is applied to two sides fed transmission lines. The simulation results presented show that the protective concept is simple with high reliability, sensitivity and achieve an extra high speed relaying. In addition, it has immunity against the influence of the large capacitance of the line, the saturation of the current transformers and the synchronization problems.
Assessment on the influence of resistive superconducting fault current limiter in VSC-HVDC system
 Due to fewer risk of commutation failures, harmonic occurrences and reactive power consumptions, Voltage Source Converter (VSC) based HVDC system is known as the optimum solution of HVDC power system for the future power grid. However, the absence of suitable fault protection devices for HVDC system hinders the efficient VSC-HVDC power grid design. In order to enhance the reliability of the VSC-HVDC power grid against the fault current problems, the application of resistive Superconducting Fault Current Limiters (SFCLs) could be considered. Also, SFCLs could be applied to the VSC-HVDC system with integrated AC Power Systems in order to enhance the transient response and the robustness of the system. In this paper, in order to evaluate the role of SFCLs in VSC-HVDC systems and to determine the suitable position of SFCLs in VSC-HVDC power systems integrated with AC power System, a simulation model based on Korea Jeju-Haenam HVDC power system was designed in Matlab Simulink/SimPowerSystems. This designed model was composed of VSC-HVDC system connected with an AC microgrid. Utilizing the designed VSC-HVDC systems, the feasible locations of resistive SFCLs were evaluated when DC line-to-line, DC line-to-ground and three phase AC faults were occurred. Consequently, it was found that the simulation model was effective to evaluate the positive effects of resistive SFCLs for the effective suppression of fault currents in VSC-HVDC systems as well as in integrated AC Systems. Finally, the optimum locations of SFCLs in VSC-HVDC transmission systems were suggested based on the simulation results.
Near-fault and far-fault ground motion effects on cable-supported bridges
 In this paper a cable-stayed bridge and a suspension bridge with closer main span lengths are considered and the bridge responses obtained from the near-fault and far-fault ground motion cases are compared for both bridge models to underline the relative importance of earthquake ground motions on the bridge responses. As expected, near-fault ground motions have resulted much larger response values for both bridge models if compared with far-fault ground motions. The results of the study also underline that, pulse type near-fault ground motion effect on the suspension bridge model is severe than those of the cable-stayed bridge model.
Wavelet based rule for fault detection
 The paper presents wavelet based fault detection method and the analysis of error rates. The proposed method is based on signal representations in Daubechies wavelet bases. For the designed fault detection rule, the upper bound of non-detection probability is derived. The proposed detection method was tested on benchmark data from the Lublin Sugar Factory in Poland.
Wavelet based noise cancellation technique for fault location on underground power cables
 This paper describes a new algorithm to identify the reflective waves for fault location in noisy environment. The new algorithm is based on the correlation of detail components at adjacent levels of stationary wavelet transform of current signal from one end of the cable. The algorithm is simple and straightforward. Simulation results based on a real power transmission system proved it can detect and locate the fault in very difficult situations.
Railway Location
 In this chapter, the basic principles of railway location are first discussed, followed by line strike. Selection of basic strike of railway lines is the fundamental problem in railway line design. The rationalization of line strike not only directly influences the engineering investment and transport efficiency of the railway project, but also affects the role of designed lines in a railway network. Topographic conditions, especially the average natural ground slopes, exert a tremendous influence on alignment positions and methods for railway location. Engineering geological conditions are also an important basis to decide a line strike and location which determine the stability and economic rationality of the railway buildings. Generally, super major bridges and long tunnels often have influence on partial strike-off alignment of route, while general bridges, culverts, and tunnels which enjoy a large quantity will be laid out according to route. Various environmentally sensitive problems need to be avoided and solved at the early stage of railway survey and design. Finally, adoption of computer-aided railway location and alignment design obviously benefits design quality improvement, manpower and capital saving, and design speed acceleration.
Compound gear-bearing fault feature extraction using statistical features based on time-frequency method
 A small incipient fault in gear and bearing causes multiple faults in gear-bearing system leading to catastrophic failure. The purpose of present study is to explore more complex situation of compound gear-bearing fault. The compound faults such as a fault in the inner and outer race of bearing along with two teeth of gear having corner damage or three teeth of gear having corner damage, etc. are investigated using experimentation. To improve the effectiveness of diagnosis, vibration measurement is done at different speed and load condition. This paper proposes new compound fault features, extracted from continuous and discrete wavelet transform of vibration signal. The methodology consist of proposing the features in time–frequency domain and comparison of its diagnostic potential with respect to the features extracted from time and frequency domain for compound fault identification using three different classifiers. The fault classification accuracy of these features is found to be better than the conventional time and frequency domain parameters.
Waveform asymmetry of instantaneous current signal based symmetrical fault detection during power swing
 This paper proposes a methodology for detection of short-circuit during power swing with easy adjustment, in order to unblock the distance relay and allow its operation. If a fault occurs during power swing, it must be immediately detected and removed. One of the major challenges in these detectors is to distinguish power swing from symmetrical fault near to the electrical center (δ = 180°), as both are balanced phenomena. This work aims to propose a detector of fault which is reliable and capable of detecting a short-circuit occurring in the moment that apparent impedance crosses near to electrical center. The methodology proposed presents as main advantages, beside the ability to identify the three-phase faults during power swing near to the electrical center up to δ ≤ 120°, to work in low sampling frequency and obtain the shortest response time compared to other techniques. In order to unblock the relay in the case of a short-circuit during power swing, the asymmetry coefficient of the current signal is calculated in a window of 1 cycle (60 Hz). If the asymmetry coefficient surpasses the predefined threshold, the relay is unblocked (reset of PSB function – Power Swing Blocking), allowing its operation. The methodology uses predefined thresholds through the analysis of signals of different power swing frequencies. In this work, the defined threshold is able to cover a great number of faults and to be tolerant to power swing frequencies lower than 6 Hz. The predefined threshold avoids the need for extensive studies on stability which estimate the behavior of power electrical system.
Classification of lightning stroke on transmission line using multi-resolution analysis and machine learning
 One of most important elements of Electric Power Systems (EPS) is the transmission line (TL), which is permanently under adverse conditions especially lightning strokes. At the moment, those phenomena have been the root cause of short circuits and the most important cause of mal-operation of transmission line protection relays. Thus, this paper develops the classification of lightning transient signals with and without fault. Multi-resolution analysis (MRA) is used to analyze those signals considering five mother wavelets and different decomposition levels of three phase voltages. In this manner, Spectral Energy and Machine Learning as Artificial Neural Network, K-Nearest Neighbors and Support Vector Machine are employed to classify those signals. On the other hand, the developed work in this paper analyzes most important parameters of lightning strokes, which are essentials in producing conditions with and without fault. Results show that the methodology presents an acceptable performance.
High Voltage AC underground cable systems for power transmission – A review of the Danish experience: Part 2
 This paper is a second of two presenting a review of research results in underground cable transmission obtained by the Department of Energy Technology, Aalborg University ET/AAU and Danish TSO Energinet.dk within the last six years. The main core of the results are obtained by PhD students researching electrical engineering topics related to using underground cables for power transmission at EHV level and including the 420 kV level. The research topics were laid down by ET/AAU and Energinet.dk in the DANPAC (DANish Power systems with Ac Cables) research project. The main topics are discussed on the basis of 39 references published by ET/AAU and Energinet.dk. Part I of the paper explains the events that lead to the research project, reactive power compensation, modelling for transient studies, including field measurements and improvements to the existing models, and temporary overvoltages due to resonances. Part II covers transient phenomena, harmonics in cables, system modelling for different phenomena, main and backup protections in cable-based networks, online fault detection and future trends.
Incipient fault feature extraction of rolling bearings based on the MVMD and Teager energy operator
 Aiming at the problems that the incipient fault of rolling bearings is difficult to recognize and the number of intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) decomposed by variational mode decomposition (VMD) must be set in advance and can not be adaptively selected, taking full advantages of the adaptive segmentation of scale spectrum and Teager energy operator (TEO) demodulation, a new method for early fault feature extraction of rolling bearings based on the modified VMD and Teager energy operator (MVMD-TEO) is proposed. Firstly, the vibration signal of rolling bearings is analyzed by adaptive scale space spectrum segmentation to obtain the spectrum segmentation support boundary, and then the number K of IMFs decomposed by VMD is adaptively determined. Secondly, the original vibration signal is adaptively decomposed into K IMFs, and the effective IMF components are extracted based on the correlation coefficient criterion. Finally, the Teager energy spectrum of the reconstructed signal of the effective IMF components is calculated by the TEO, and then the early fault features of rolling bearings are extracted to realize the fault identification and location. Comparative experiments of the proposed method and the existing fault feature extraction method based on Local Mean Decomposition and Teager energy operator (LMD-TEO) have been implemented using experimental data-sets and a measured data-set. The results of comparative experiments in three application cases show that the presented method can achieve a fairly or slightly better performance than LMD-TEO method, and the validity and feasibility of the proposed method are proved.
Quantitative trend fault diagnosis of a rolling bearing based on Sparsogram and Lempel-Ziv
 Aiming at the misdiagnosis caused by extracting the non-fault features using Lempel-Ziv algorithm, a quantitative trend fault diagnosis method of a rolling bearing based on Sparsogram and Lempel-Ziv is proposed in this paper. The approximate linear relationships between Lempel-Ziv and the fault sizes of inner and outer races are simulated with a theoretical model of rolling bearings. Then, the fault characteristic of experimental signal of bearing inner and outer race in different severity is extracted by Sparsogram algorithm, and the frequency band is selected which reflects the fault characteristic mostly, and the Lempel-Ziv complexity index of the frequency band is calculated. This method can avoid the misdiagnosis caused by extracting non-fault features. Comparing with direct calculation of Lempel-Ziv value, the performance is much better on the quantitative diagnosis of a defective bearing. The experimental results show that the proposed method can realize the quantitative trend diagnosis on defective bearings.
Energy and entropy-based feature extraction for locating fault on transmission lines by using neural network and wavelet packet decomposition
 The aim of this paper is to estimate the fault location on transmission lines quickly and accurately. The faulty current and voltage signals obtained from a simulation are decomposed by wavelet packet transform (WPT). The extracted features are applied to artificial neural network (ANN) for estimating fault location. As data sets increase in size, their analysis become more complicated and time consuming. The energy and entropy criterion are applied to wavelet packet coefficients to decrease the size of feature vectors. The test results of ANN demonstrate that the applying of energy criterion to current signals after WPT is a very powerful and reliable method for reducing data sets in size and hence estimating fault locations on transmission lines quickly and accurately.
Future power transmission: Visions, technologies and challenges
 Power transmission systems are called upon to play a crucial role in the future decarbonized, electrified and digital energy sectors, as they constitute the most effective way of distributing vast amounts of electricity from renewable energy sources to faraway locations. This paper aims at critically reviewing worldwide the regional visions, as well as existing and newer technologies involved in the development and upgrading of bulk transmission systems. The main emphasis is put on the major challenges and boundary conditions arising during the paradigm change that electric energy systems will undergo over the next half century. Recent research and pilot projects on this subject are revised, embracing effective combinations of AC and DC technologies, such as high-voltage AC transmission systems, phase-shifting transformers, flexible AC transmission systems and point-to-point and multi-terminal high-voltage DC systems. The challenges faced by this transition involve technical, economical, environmental, regulatory and social factors that will finally determine the preference for one or another technology in particular regions of the world. General recommendations and guidelines are proposed to increase the probability of success of future transmission projects, regardless of the type of technology, geographic location or particular external conditions. Several somewhat competing architectures are envisioned in this more volatile context, all together offering great possibilities to increase transmission capability while loop flows are prevented and system stability is preserved or enhanced.
Fault detection of a wheelset bearing in a high-speed train using the shock-response convolutional sparse-coding technique
 The wheelset bearing is an essential mechanical component of a high-speed train, and its fault detection is of great importance for ensuring the safety of high-speed train service. However, the strong nonlinear and non-stationary modulation characteristics of the impulses induced by bearing faults, noises and interferences make fault detection of the wheelset bearing difficult and complex. The impulses induced by bearing faults have convolutional sparse characteristics, and can be described as the convolution of shock responses and time location coefficients. This paper presents a new fault detection method based on the shock-response convolutional sparse-coding technique (SRCSCT) to resolve the two inverse problems related to convolution characteristics. One of the problems is that shock responses are learned directly from vibration signals via the shift-invariant dictionary learning (SIDL) of SRCSCT; the other is that the time location coefficients are inferred from vibration signals via shift-invariant sparse coding (SISC) of SRCSCT. Shock responses can reflect the high-level structures of impulses embedded in vibration signals. Time location coefficients can be used to determine the time of impulse occurrence. The convolutions of learned shock responses and inferred corresponding time location coefficients are used to extract impulses submerged in vibration signals and are convenient for post-processing methods, such as Hilbert envelope analysis. Both the simulated signals and real vibration signals collected from a wheelset bearing test bench are used to verify the proposed method. The results show that SRCSCT not only effectively detects faults of the wheelset bearing but also accurately characterizes the fault dynamic behaviours of the bearing defects.
Optimal power flow considering fault current level constraints and fault current limiters
 The aim of this paper is to present a novel method to dispatch the active generation power properly in the power system while incorporating fault current levels as constraints for the optimization problem. Due to the limited capacity of protective devices such as circuit breakers, allocating active power without considering fault current levels can probably lead to fault currents exceeding the rating of these devices. Hence restricting the fault current levels to an allowable amount while minimizing a specified objective function seems to be necessary. In a number of cases even the appropriate allocation of active power is not able to reduce the fault current levels to the permitted amount therefore using fault current limiters (FCL) is unavoidable. In this paper also a planning scheme is presented for the location and sizing of fault current limiters and the effect of fault current limiters on the objective functions is investigated.
The Power Line Inspection Software (PoLIS): A versatile system for automating power line inspection
 A large amount of data, provided in the form of video data, is acquired during manned inspections flights of electric power lines. This data is analyzed by expert human inspectors to detect faults in the power lines infrastructure and prepare the inspection reports. This process is extremely time consuming, very expensive and prone to human error. In this paper, we present PoLIS: the Power Line Inspection Software, which has been developed with the objective of assisting the analysis of the data acquired during inspection flights. PoLIS is based on the cooperation between computer vision and machine learning techniques to automatically process video sequences acquired during inspection flights, resulting in a set of representative images per electric tower which we call Key Frames. These representative images can then be used for inspection purposes, leading to a drastic reduction of the human operators’ workload. At the core of the strategy lies an electric tower detector, which is in charge of estimating the location of the towers within the images based on the combination of a sliding window search technique and a supervised classifier. The location of the tower is then tracked using a tracking-by-registration algorithm based on direct methods, estimating the position of the tower in different images. Finally, different criteria are applied for defining whether the image corresponds to a Key Frame image or not. Extensive evaluation of the proposed strategy is conducted using videos acquired during manned helicopter inspections. The videos constituting this database contain several thousand frames representing both medium and high voltage power transmission lines in the infra-red (IR) and visible spectra. The obtained results show that the proposed strategy can reduce the large amount of data present in the inspection videos to a few Key Frames for each tower. It is also demonstrated that the learning-based approach proposed in PoLIS is appropriate for detecting electric towers, a process which is made faster and more robust by coupling it with a tower tracking algorithm. A Graphical User Interface allowing the application of PoLIS to user-provided videos is also presented in this paper, illustrating the whole process and the automated generation of an inspection report.
Microstructures imply cataclasis and authigenic mineral formation control geomechanical properties of New Zealand's Alpine Fault
 The Alpine Fault is capable of generating large (MW > 8) earthquakes and is the main geohazard on South Island, NZ, and late in its 250–291-year seismic cycle. To minimize its hazard potential, it is indispensable to identify and understand the processes influencing the geomechanical behavior and strength-evolution of the fault. High-resolution microstructural, mineralogical and geochemical analyses of the Alpine Fault's core demonstrate wall rock fragmentation, assisted by mineral dissolution, and cementation resulting in the formation of a fine-grained principal slip zone (PSZ). A complex network of anastomosing and mutually cross-cutting calcite veins implies that faulting occurred during episodes of dilation, slip and sealing. Fluid-assisted dilatancy leads to a significant volume increase accommodated by vein formation in the fault core. Undeformed euhedral chlorite crystals and calcite veins that have cut footwall gravels demonstrate that these processes occurred very close to the Earth's surface. Microstructural evidence indicates that cataclastic processes dominate the deformation and we suggest that powder lubrication and grain rolling, particularly influenced by abundant nanoparticles, play a key role in the fault core's velocity-weakening behavior rather than frictional sliding. This is further supported by the absence of smectite, which is reasonable given recently measured geothermal gradients of more than 120 °C km−1 and the impermeable nature of the PSZ, which both limit the growth of this phase and restrict its stability to shallow depths. Our observations demonstrate that high-temperature fluids can influence authigenic mineral formation and thus control the fault's geomechanical behavior and the cyclic evolution of its strength.
A novel method for locating faults on distribution systems
 Accurate location of faults in an electric power distribution system is important in maintaining system reliability. Diverse methods have been proposed in the past, which usually have different assumptions and thus are applicable to specific circumstances. This paper attempts to put forth a novel, general fault location method that is applicable to distribution networks with unbalances and multi-sources by employing voltages and currents at the local substation. The method considers feeder shunt capacitances and is applicable to both overhead and underground networks. The method does not require the fault type to be known, and is applicable to any type of faults. The method is based on bus impedance matrix that enables the establishment of the equations governing the relationship of the measurements and the fault location. Evaluation studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method and its robustness with respect to potential measurement errors and load variations.
An analysis of fault detection strategies in wireless sensor networks
 Wireless sensor networks have emerged as a key technology which is used in many safety critical applications. The sensors in wireless sensor network have to be deployed in hostile, harsh and unattended environments for long periods of time. This creates a great challenge in providing a good quality of service. This results in introductions of faults, sensor failures, communication failures and changes in topology. Hence, efficient fault detection techniques are required for good quality of service. In this article, we survey various fault detection techniques and provide a new taxonomy to integrate new fault detection techniques. We perform a qualitative comparison of the latest fault detection algorithms. From a qualitative analysis, we select a list of techniques that are analyzed quantitatively. We also discuss the shortcomings, advantages and future research directions for fault detection in wireless sensor networks.
A novel traveling-wave-based protection scheme for LCC-HVDC systems using Teager Energy Operator
 Line Commutated Converter (LCC) based High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) technology has been in operation with a high level reliability and little maintenance requirements for more than thirty years. The current-source based or classical LCC-HVDC systems are being considered for buried cable transmission as well as overhead transmission. The fault analysis and protection of LCC-HVDC system is a very important aspect in terms of power system stability. This paper proposes a novel protection scheme for LCC-HVDC systems, in which the difference between propagation processes of traveling wave under internal and external faults is used as a criterion for detection of fault incidents in HVDC transmission lines. In order to quantify and intensify this difference, Teager Energy Operator (TEO) is used which has the ability to reflect the instantaneous energy of a signal. The main feature of the proposed scheme in comparison with the existing ones is that it operates faster, since it does not require to extract any harmonic or high frequency component; moreover, a 2-ms sampling window is sufficient for its algorithm which only deals with simple calculations. In order to validate the effectiveness of the proposed protection scheme, several fault events under different fault resistances and fault locations were simulated on a test network using PSCAD/EMTDC software. Also, the performance of the proposed scheme under real fault events was tested using four field data cases. Both simulation data and field data test results indicated that the proposed protection strategy has the ability to accurately discriminate between internal and external faults and detect the faulted pole in the bipolar systems even under high-impedance fault conditions.
Accurate fault locator for EHV transmission lines based on radial basis function neural networks
 This paper describes the design and implementation of an artificial neural networks-based fault locator for extra high voltage (EHV) transmission lines. This locator utilizes faulted voltage and current waveforms at one end of the line only. The radial basis function (RBF) networks are trained with data under a variety of fault conditions and used for fault type classification and fault location on the transmission line. The results obtained from testing of RBF networks with simulated fault data and recorded data from a 400 kV system clearly show that this technique is highly robust and very accurate. The technique takes into account all the practical limitations associated with a real system. Thereby making it possible to effectively implement an artificial intelligence (AI) based fault locator on a real system.
Online fault diagnosis and prevention expert system for dredgers
 Faults during dredging process often caused serious damages on dredging system. High maintenance costs and prolonged fault recovering process often make dredging production and profit low. An online fault diagnosis and prevention expert system that is aimed to prevent fault occurrence and to quicken the recovering process is introduced in this paper. For the complexity of fault judging and prevention process and frequently varying dynamics of dredging operations, hybrid structure and inference process are adopted in the expert system. ANNs are introduced to adapt the varying system dynamics and to predict system state. Designed expert application is also featured by online fault prevention and recovering decisions. Preliminary test has been carried out in actual engineering project and results of performance evaluation experiment are also introduced.
Fault ride-through enhancement using an enhanced field oriented control technique for converters of grid connected DFIG and STATCOM for different types of faults
 With increase in electric power demand, transmission lines were forced to operate close to its full load and due to the drastic change in weather conditions, thermal limit is increasing and the system is operating with less security margin. To meet the increased power demand, a doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) based wind generation system is a better alternative. For improving power flow capability and increasing security STATCOM can be adopted. As per modern grid rules, DFIG needs to operate without losing synchronism called low voltage ride through (LVRT) during severe grid faults. Hence, an enhanced field oriented control technique (EFOC) was adopted in Rotor Side Converter of DFIG converter to improve power flow transfer and to improve dynamic and transient stability. A STATCOM is coordinated to the system for obtaining much better stability and enhanced operation during grid fault. For the EFOC technique, rotor flux reference changes its value from synchronous speed to zero during fault for injecting current at the rotor slip frequency. In this process DC-Offset component of flux is controlled, decomposition during symmetric and asymmetric faults. The offset decomposition of flux will be oscillatory in a conventional field oriented control, whereas in EFOC it was aimed to damp quickly. This paper mitigates voltage and limits surge currents to enhance the operation of DFIG during symmetrical and asymmetrical faults. The system performance with different types of faults like single line to ground, double line to ground and triple line to ground was applied and compared without and with a STATCOM occurring at the point of common coupling with fault resistance of a very small value at 0.001 Ω.
Distributed data-based fault identification and accommodation in networked process systems
 This paper presents a data-based framework for distributed actuator fault identification and accommodation in networked process systems controlled over a resource-constrained communication medium. Initially, a quasi-decentralized networked control structure is designed to stabilize the plant in the absence of faults. The structure consists of a set of local model-based control systems that communicate with one another at discrete times. An explicit characterization of the networked closed-loop stability region is obtained in terms of the update period, the accuracy of the models, and the choice of controller design parameters. To address the actuator fault identification problem, a set of local fault diagnosis agents are designed and embedded within the various subsystems. Each agent uses a moving-horizon parameter estimation scheme to estimate on-line the size and location of the local faults using the locally sampled states and the model state estimates for the interconnected units. Potential discrepancies or ambiguities in the local fault diagnosis results, which may be caused by the strong dynamic coupling between the individual subsystems and the presence of plant-model mismatch, are reconciled by means of a fault estimation confidence interval which is obtained by analyzing the networked closed-loop dynamics at update times. Once the locations and magnitudes of the actuator faults are identified, the resulting estimates are transmitted to a higher-level supervisor to select and implement a suitable fault accommodation strategy. A number of stability-preserving fault accommodation strategies are devised, including updating the post-fault models, adjusting the controllers’ parameters, or a combination of both. The selection of the appropriate fault accommodation strategy is made on the basis of the estimated fault magnitude and the characterization of the networked closed-loop stability region. Finally, the developed methodology is illustrated using a reactor–separator process example subject to both sudden and incipient control actuator faults.
A novel fast distance relay for long transmission lines
 The measuring accuracy and the measurement stability of conventional distance relay will be influenced by complex and remarkable harmonic components due to the large capacitance of the line when it is used for a long line. Correspondingly, the tripping speed will be delayed to some extent. To solve this problem, a fast distance relay for long transmission lines is presented, which is on the basis of the differential equation algorithm using π transmission line model and the theory of Equal Transfer Process of Transmission Lines (ETPTL). The shortcomings of π model differential equation algorithm due to the impact of high frequency components can be overcome by using a low-pass filter. The problem resulting from the difference between the transfer feature of the voltages used by the distance protection and that of the currents due to the transient characteristic of coupling capacitor voltage transformers (CCVT) can be solved by using virtual digital CCVT. Then, the new distance relay can trip quickly by re-structuring the voltage at the fault point and iterative calculations. A variety of ATP simulation tests show that the new relay has fast tripping speed and high reliability when applied to the long transmission lines.
Spare optimistic based on improved ADMM and the minimum entropy de-convolution for the early weak fault diagnosis of bearings in marine systems
 In the marine systems, engines represent the most important part of ships, the probability of the bearings fault is the highest in the engines, so in the bearing vibration analysis, early weak fault detection is very important for long term monitoring. In this paper, we propose a novel method to solve the early weak fault diagnosis of bearing. Firstly, we should improve the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM), structure of the traditional ADMM is changed, and then the improved ADMM is applied to the compressed sensing (CS) theory, which realizes the sparse optimization of bearing signal for a mount of data. After the sparse signal is reconstructed, the calculated signal is restored with the minimum entropy de-convolution (MED) to get clear fault information. Finally we adopt the sample entropy. Morphological mean square amplitude and the root mean square (RMS) to find the early fault diagnosis of bearing respectively, at the same time, we plot the Boxplot comparison chart to find the best of the three indicators. The experimental results prove that the proposed method can effectively identify the early weak fault diagnosis.
Devices and technology for monitoring transmission lines
 In this chapter, the classification and basic composition of on-line detection devices for transmission lines is introduced, and also monitoring parameters, sensors, power supply mode, and communication modes. Then, the following are introduced in turn: insulator pollution flashover characteristics and pollution monitoring principles and applications; conductor monsoon discharge mechanism and influencing factors, and principles and application of monsoon monitoring; the mechanism of formation and influencing factors of wire vibration, and principles and application of vibration monitoring; the mechanism of formation and influencing factors of conductor galloping, galloping monitoring principles and application; the principles and application of conductor temperature and sag monitoring; the mechanism of line lightning, lightning location monitoring, and lightning fault monitoring principles and application. Meteorological and image/video monitoring technology and applications and a comprehensive on-line detection system are also introduced.
In situ stress heterogeneity in a highly developed strike-slip fault zone and its effect on the distribution of tight gases: A 3D finite element simulation study
 Strike-slip fault zones are an important type of structure formed during continental orogenic events. Exploring the influence of strike-slip faults on the distribution of natural gas by using the 3D finite element method (FEM) is a frontier in the field of geoscience. In this paper, the effects of strike-slip faults on the heterogeneity of in situ stress and reservoir quality were systematically studied in a shallow commercial coalbed methane reservoir in the Shanxi Formation in the southern Qinshui Basin. Systematic 3D FEM modeling and in situ stress evaluation of a highly developed strike-slip fault zone were conducted. The results indicate that the simulated in situ stress distributions of σH, σh and σv in the target layer present ranges of 10–55 MPa, 3–23 MPa and 5–30 MPa, respectively, which are consistent with acoustic emission and hydraulic fracturing measurements. Along the strike-slip faults, the distribution of horizontal in situ stress is mainly affected by the fault length and vertical throw. The stress magnitude differs greatly between the two sides of a given strike-slip fault, affecting the compaction degree and petrophysical properties of the gas-bearing reservoir on both sides of the fault. Along the strike of a given strike-slip fault, the minimum horizontal in situ stress exhibits distinct segmentation characteristics, which affect the distribution of wells with a higher and lower yields. For the 2 s-order faults (the Sitou and Houchengyao faults), wells with a higher gas production capacity are typically located on the northwestern side of the faults. In the middle and southern sections of the Sitou-Houchengyao strike-slip fault zone, both highly concentrated faults and large-scale opening faults (basement and surface faults) produce greater stress concentrations, and the gas production capacity of the gas wells in these areas is poor. When the main strike direction of the faults is consistent with the loading direction of the boundary stress, the stress concentration is relatively low; whereas, the stress concentration increases as the angle between the main fault strike and the loading direction increases. The shear stress of the target layer is characterized by clockwise rotation, which is an important control on the stress heterogeneity of the strike-slip faults in the study area.
IM2DCA: Immune mechanism based multipath decoupling connectivity algorithm with fault tolerance under coverage optimization in wireless sensor networks
 Transmission stability and reliability are important metrics in wireless sensor networks which brings great challenges to the study and application. Coverage issue has great relationship with reliable packets transmission which lays foundation for improving the performance of fault tolerance due to characteristics of network itself and working scenario. Immune mechanism based multipath decoupling connectivity algorithm with fault tolerance under coverage optimization (IM2DCA) is presented which includes maximum immune coverage algorithm (MICA) and immune multipath of parallel decoupling algorithm (IMPDA). MICA adopts the immune mechanism to optimize the nodes deployment and gets the maximum coverage laying the foundation for multipath establishment in the network scenario deployed with static and mobile sensor nodes. IMPDA adopts the immune mechanism to establish multiple paths from the source node to the destination node to improve the reliable transmission. Nodes decoupling is presented in the process of multipath establishment to lower the coupling degree of multipath joint model. It tries to make the joint model become the disjoint model or partly joint multipaths by lowering the importance degree of joint nodes to improve the performance of fault tolerance when fault nodes exist. Performance is analyzed through the established mathematical model in which transmission robustness and fault tolerance are analyzed. Simulation shows that the proposed IM2DCA can get the optimal network coverage with the conditional constraint. Under this scenario of optimized coverage, fault tolerance and effectiveness are proved through the optimization of multiple decoupled paths from the source node to the destination node based on the immune mechanism. IM2DCA improves the stability and reliability of wireless sensor networks via comparing it with representative works.
Fault-tolerant cooperative control in an offshore wind farm using model-free and model-based fault detection and diagnosis approaches
 Given the importance of reliability and availability in wind farms, this paper focuses on the development of fault diagnosis and fault-tolerant control schemes in a cooperative framework (referred to as active fault-tolerant cooperative control) at the wind farm level against the decreasing power generation caused by turbine blade erosion and debris build-up on the blades over time. In more details, the paper presents a novel integrated fault detection and diagnosis and fault-tolerant control approach oriented to the design and development of two active fault-tolerant cooperative control schemes for an offshore wind farm. Each of the schemes employs a fault detection and diagnosis system to provide accurate and timely diagnosis information to be used in an appropriate automatic signal correction algorithm for accommodation of faults in the wind farm. The effectiveness and performance of the proposed schemes are evaluated and compared using different simulations on a high-fidelity offshore wind farm benchmark model in the presence of wind turbulences, measurement noises and realistic fault scenarios.
Fault-tolerant spanners in networks with symmetric directional antennas
 Let P be a set of points in the plane, each equipped with a directional antenna that covers a sector of angle α and range r. In the symmetric model of communication, two antennas u and v can communicate to each other, if and only if v lies in u's coverage area and vice versa. In this paper, we introduce the concept of fault-tolerant spanners for directional antennas, which enables us to construct communication networks that retain their connectivity and spanning ratio even if a subset of antennas are removed from the network. We show how to orient the antennas with angle α and range r to obtain a k-fault-tolerant spanner for any positive integer k. For α≥π, we show that the range 13 for the antennas is sufficient to obtain a k-fault-tolerant 3-spanner. For π/2<α<π, we show that using range 6δ+19 for δ=⌈4/|cos⁡α|⌉, one can direct antennas so that the induced communication graph is a k-fault-tolerant 7-spanner.
Transmission system wide-area back-up protection using current phasor measurements
 Zone-3 of distance relays might maloperate during stresses frequently encountered in power systems, such as power swing, load encroachment, and voltage instability. This paper proposes a new protection algorithm for discrimination between short-circuit faults and other stresses in the transmission networks. The proposed method compares the sum of currents at the predetermined buses before and after the disturbance occurrence using synchronized current phasor measurements. The faulted area and line are identified as well. The optimal placement of phasor measurement units (PMUs) is tackled using a mathematical model. One of the main advantages of the proposed algorithm is decreasing the number of required PMUs in comparison with those of existing wide-area back-up protection schemes. In virtue of its computational speed, the proposed method can be exploited as a practical back-up protection cooperating with conventional protection schemes. The extensive simulation studies carried out on the IEEE 57-bus test system verify applicability of the proposed algorithm as a reliable back-up protection scheme for lines.
Transient analysis of inductive induced voltage between power line and nearby pipeline
 Among the available literature on electromagnetic interference between high voltage power lines and nearby pipelines, the topic of transient induced voltage on the pipelines are rarely discussed. Fault in high voltage transmission systems is usually cleared in several cycles, sometimes even before the fault current reaches the steady state. This paper proposes an analytical approach for calculating the transient induced voltage and current on a pipeline due to inductive coupling using a circuit model. A numerical example is studied to demonstrate the waveforms of transient induced voltage and current on the pipeline. Simulation results show that the transient peak of the induced voltage is greater than steady state values. Therefore, it is necessary to study the induced voltage and current during the transient period.
Decentralised fault detection, identification, and mitigation in excitation control systems
 A new intelligent, decentralised, fault detection, location identification and mitigation approach for the excitation control systems of multi-generator power grids is presented in this paper. The proposed approach detects and locates faults in basic components of the excitation systems with a high accuracy and in almost real-time using interval type 2 fuzzy set theory. Once a fault is detected and the location of the fault is identified, a mitigation action follows, where the signal out of the faulty component is automatically replaced by a stabilising signal generated by the fault mitigation system. The mitigation action ensures that the field excitation voltage (thus the terminal voltage of the affected generator) is controlled such that the affected generator and the whole system maintain their pre-fault operating condition. The high accuracy and fast response time aspects of the proposed approach are verified through case studies performed on the IEEE 30 bus test system.
Failure analysis of a welded steel pipe at Kullar fault crossing
 The seismic response of a 2200-mm-diameter welded steel pipe at strike slip Kullar fault crossing in Izmit, Kocaeli during 1999 Kocaeli earthquake is investigated. The pipe was crossing the fault-line with an angle of 55° and suffered leaks due to 3.0 m of right lateral movement of fault, which imposed compressive axial strain in the pipe. The backfill material of the trench was native soil which was non-homogenous (soft and stiff clay) with respect to fault line-soft material on the North side, stiff material on the South side. Field observations revealed two major wrinkles with finger width cracks and a minor wrinkle on the soft soil side of the fault. Large plastic strains and local folding were observed at wrinkles due to compressive strains. The case is known as one of the best documented fault crossing examples. The failure behavior of the Thames water pipe during 1999 Kocaeli earthquake is simulated by utilizing a 3D nonlinear continuum FE model. The numerical model considers contact surface at soil pipe interface and performs large deformation analyses of the pipe. The locations of wrinkles as well as axial displacements/rotations demands due to fault rupture are predicted. It is observed that once wrinkle initiates, strain in the pipe away from the wrinkle reduces after initial local buckling and additional shortening of the pipeline tends to accumulate at the wrinkle causing large plastic strains and rotation demands associated with fault rupture, an observation consistent with field observations and 2005 ALA guidelines.
Directional overcurrent and earth-fault protections for a biomass microgrid system in Malaysia
 Over-current protection is principally intended to counteract excessive current in power systems. In distribution systems in Malaysia, non-directional over-current protection is adopted because of the radial nature of the power system used. Relay typically used in distribution network are designed to cater for current flow in one direction, i.e., from transmission network to load. However, with the forecasted increase in generation from renewable sources, it is important that adequate codes are in place with regards to their integration to sub-transmission/distribution network. Distribution network dynamically changes from “passive” to “active” network. With distributed generation connected to distribution network, power flows bi-directionally. Hence, directional over-current protection is adopted along the line between the transmission grid and the distributed generation. The bi-directional flow of power also complicates the earth fault protection. This is due to the presence of the distributed generation that will cause the line near the delta side of the transformer to be still energized after the operation of earth fault relay during single-phase-to-ground-fault. This paper investigates the directional over-current and earth fault protections used to protect the microgrid (biomass generator) in Malaysia. In this study, under-voltage relays are adopted at the delta side of the transformer to fully clear the single-line-to-ground fault, which cannot be cleared by earth fault relay. Three-phase-balanced fault and single-line-to-ground-fault at all possible locations in the network have been simulated. Simulation shows good coordination and discrimination between over-current relays.
High voltage AC underground cable systems for power transmission – A review of the Danish experience, part 1
 This paper is a first of two presenting a review of research results in underground cable transmission obtained by the Department of Energy Technology, Aalborg University ET/AAU and Danish TSO Energinet.dk within the last 6 years. The main core of the results are obtained by PhD students researching electrical engineering topics related to using underground cables for power transmission at EHV level and including the 420 kV level. The research topics were laid down by ET/AAU and Energinet.dk in the DANPAC (DANish Power systems with AC Cables) research project. The main topics are discussed on the basis of 39 references published by ET/AAU and Energinet.dk. Part I of the paper explains the events that lead to the research project, reactive power compensation, modelling for transient studies, including field measurements and improvements to the existing models, and temporary overvoltages due to resonances. Part II covers transient phenomena, harmonics in cables, system modelling for different phenomena, main and backup protections in cable-based networks, online fault detection and future trends.
Non-stationary vibration feature extraction method based on sparse decomposition and order tracking for gearbox fault diagnosis
 Vibration signals of gearboxes working under time-varying conditions are non-stationary, which causes difficulties to the fault diagnosis. Based on the techniques of signal sparse decomposition and order tracking, a novel method is proposed to extract fault features from non-stationary vibration signals of gearboxes. The method contains two key procedures, the quasi-steady component separation in angle domain and the impact resonance component extraction in time domain. The sparse dictionary including quasi-steady sub-dictionary and impact sub-dictionary is specifically designed according to the time-frequency characteristics of steady-type fault and impact-type fault. The former sub-dictionary consists of cosine functions and is based on the order spectrum information of angle domain signal. The latter sub-dictionary consists of the unit impulse response of multiple-degree-of-freedom vibration system whose modal parameters are self-adaptively recognized by the method of correlation filtering. An improved matching pursuit algorithm on segmental signal is designed to solve sparse coefficients and reconstruct steady-type fault components and impact-type fault components. The simulation analyses show that the proposed method is capable to process the signal with 30% speed fluctuation and −1.5 dB signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), in which the SNR of impact-type fault components is as low as −14.6 dB. The effectiveness is further verified by experimental tests on a fixed-shaft gearbox and a planetary gearbox.
Wavelet transform based digital protection for transmission lines
 This paper presents a high speed, computationally efficient scheme for protection of transmission lines. The relay logic consists of three parts: directional protection, fault classification and fault location. Wavelet transform is used for extracting information from the fault transients and only the first level high frequency details of the voltages and currents are used. Proposed protection logic compares the directional signals from both terminals to discriminate between faults inside and outside the zone of interest. Fault classification is achieved using local terminal current information. An estimate of the location of the faults is obtained utilizing single faulted phase current information from both terminals. The logic is deterministic and can work reliably in the presence of fault resistance, load variation and CT saturation. The validity of the proposed logic was exhaustively tested by simulating various types of faults on a four bus meshed system modeled in EMTP/ATP.
A generalized method to improve the location accuracy of the single-ended sampled data and lumped parameter model based fault locators
 The necessity for very high accuracy in fault location is generally becoming more and more important. In this paper, a new generalized algorithm which can improve the accuracy of all fault location algorithms based on the lumped parameter model and single-ended data is presented. The measured distance resulting from the lumped parameter model can be converted to the positive sequence measured impedance matching with the model. Then, the relation between real distance and positive sequence measured impedance of fault circuit based on Bergeron model can be derived according to the analysis of solid grounded faults. Then the improved algorithm resulting from the relation of real distance and measured distance can be obtained. Theoretically, the proposed algorithm is independent of shunt distributed capacitance of transmission lines. Besides, the algorithm is based on power–frequency voltages and currents, and hence high sampling rate is unnecessary. Therefore, it can be implemented in the existing protection devices easily. This paper presents the theory of the technique and the results of ATP simulation tests to demonstrate its performance.
Analysis of Polygonal Distance Protection Relay of Transmission Line Affected by SMES Device
 Because of unique advantages in rapid response and independent control of act ve and reactive power, Superconducting Magnetic Energy Storage (SMES) device will be widely used in the power system. The SMES exchanges power with power grid in the charging and discharging process, so it may affect the performance of protection relay of transmission line, which will lead to mal-operation. Based on SMES model, the tripping characteristic of polygonal distance relay for single-machine-infinite-bus performance of polygonal distance relay with SMES. The simulation results show the measured impedance of polygonal distance relay is changed by SMES, and polygonal distance relay will make mal-operation when faults occur in the boundary of protection zone. Also an improving distance relay is proposed to solve the problem.
Fault induced rock bursts and micro-tremors – Experiences from the Gotthard Base Tunnel
 During the construction of the Faido Multifunction Station of the Gotthard Base Tunnel, a previously unknown and unanticipated major tectonical fault has been encountered. Upon completion of the advance through the fault, systematic and major rock burst events occurred in the competent Gneiss rock mass adjacent to the fault. The Swiss Earthquake Service (Schweizer Erdbebendienst – SED) observed an increase of microtremors in the vicinity of the tunnelling site, in a region where usually very low seismic activity is present. As a consequence, the seismic monitoring grid has been enhanced in the project area, allowing reliable pin-pointing of the microtremor hypocenters and examination on the interaction with the tunnel advance and the observed rock burst events. Due to the vast amount of scientific work with regard to rock burst causes, classification, prediction and mitigation, this publication deliberately abstains from trying to add yet another set of relationships and/or classification schemes. Instead, a case study is presented, with the peculiarity that excellent seismic monitoring and very well documented rock mass conditions are seamlessly available, allowing direct correlation and insight into the interaction between seismicity and strike-slip rock bursts. In addition, the results of a dynamic analysis performed in UDEC, with excitation wave data and rock mass parameters calibrated on the field measurements, are presented. They allow greater understanding of the events caused by seismicity-induced rock burst phenomena. The experiences with prediction and mitigation of rock burst are shown, leading to conclusions with regard to efficient and safe tunnelling in rock-burst prone rock masses.
An efficient fault diagnosis method for PV systems following string current
 With the elevated use of Solar Photovoltaic (PV) systems, efficiency improvement of PV systems has become a priority research topic nowadays. Moreover, remarkable efforts to study different PV fault diagnosis methods have been increasing to give the PV system efficiency researches an extra edge. In this study, meta-heuristic optimization techniques have been employed as a novel fault diagnosis methodology that can efficiently identify, locate and distinguish between open circuit (OC) and short circuit (SC) faults in a PV system. The diagnosis algorithm follows the string current considering the effect of non-uniform irradiance and corresponding module temperature. It has been experimented that the proposed methodology has achieved success in fault diagnosis in a physical test system and distinctly identify the fault locations and types like short circuit faults and open circuit faults in a PV string. Some well recognized algorithms like, Genetic Algorithm (GA), Tabu Search (TS) algorithm and a recently developed efficient optimization technique, namely Grey Wolf Optimization (GWO), have been used as optimizers in the proposed fault diagnosis methodology. Results and performances of these optimizers in the proposed fault diagnosis methodology have been compared and assessed for validation.
Experimental investigation of injection pressure effects on fault reactivation for CO2 storage
 Laboratory tests were conducted in a triaxial load frame with acoustic emission and transmission capability to investigate mechanisms that might be initiating the microseismicity experienced in CO2 injection operations. Although often related to reactivation of mapped faults or local fracturing due to reduced injectivity, the case of the Illinois Basin – Decatur Project is used here to illustrate the need for better understanding of what triggers microseismic events in relatively large permeability, good reservoir candidates. There, microseismicity has occurred in the CO2 storage target formation, the Mt. Simon sandstone, as well as in the underlying Precambrian basement. The microseismicity in the Mt. Simon sandstone occurred ahead of CO2 plume arrival and at relatively low injection pressure conditions, well below the fracturing pressure at the injection well. A hypothesis is suggested for the occurrence of such events in the field, whereby critically stressed planes are activated by the passage of the pressure front at injection start; these faults are small and thus not visible in the seismic survey. In order to test this hypothesis, sandstone plugs were prepared by two different methods to incorporate a fracture plane, which we attempted to reactivate by pore pressure pulses. The reactivation was successful at low pressure for a fracture created in the laboratory at reservoir conditions but was unsuccessful except at a much higher pore pressure in a saw-cut artificial fracture. The results suggest that tortuous, rough stress-induced fractures may be easier to reactivate because of the higher probability that sections are already favorably oriented with respect to critical shear stress at a low pore pressure increase. Saw-cut fractures may close completely under isotropic stress loading and may be difficult to activate unless exactly oriented with respect to critical shear stress at a low pore pressure increase. Acoustic emission accompanying fracture reactivation was also recorded and analyzed. This revealed a different event distribution energy between creating and reactivating the fracture.
MCHO – A new indicator for insulation conditions in transmission lines
 Conventionally monitoring operating conditions of a power transmission line is accomplished by periodic inspections along this line. This monitoring allows corrective maintenance by finding faults during the inspection. But in more efficient maintenance, predictive techniques that are characterized by real-time monitoring should be employed. Such predictive techniques allow for verifying the working status of the line by using normal working models to detect faults and fault models for diagnosis. This paper presents a study that used a mathematical model appropriate for application to predictive maintenance of transmission line segments at low cost, without the need for sensors distributed along the line, and presenting a new indicator of transmission line operation conditions. By tracking the leakage current of transmission lines, this model allows for estimating the current line insulation status. Once the current line insulation status is known, it is possible to compare it against other future status and verify the progress of the insulation conditions of that line. The model uses a new indicator, called MCHO, which can detect and diagnose both normal and abnormal operating conditions of a power transmission line. This new indicator is the capacitance of the harmonic frequencies of the transmission line leakage current. The model was validated through measurements obtained on a stretch of transmission line.
Locational transmission capacity reserve determination using system well-being analysis
 This paper presents a methodology to determine the locational transmission capacity reserve required to provide additional transmission transfer capability to access remote generation. The methodology is based on translating the accepted deterministic criteria into probabilistic measures using the system well-being analysis framework. The objective of utilizing system well-being analysis is to help to identify and characterize the actual system reliability concerns regarding the exclusive use of deterministic criteria, and to help to determine what the appropriate deterministic reliability criteria should be so that power utilities can adjust and expand the deterministic criteria to cope with uncertainty considerations that exist in practical power systems. An application of system well-being analysis to determine the locational transmission capacity reserve on an actual island system in Canada is illustrated in this paper.
Ground Fault Current Distribution
 The analytical and measurement procedures developed in this chapter enable the determination of the ground fault current distribution for a fault anywhere along a high-voltage or medium-voltage line performed by one three-core cable and three single-core cables and installed in urban areas. In general, the correct estimation of ground fault distribution is necessary in contemporary electric power engineering practice to obtain a correct evaluation of critical potential differences (step and touch voltages) appearing during a ground fault on a grounding system of a supplied substation. There is also the need to choose cable(s) with a metal sheath cross-section that is in accordance with real needs, or, in other words, large enough to withstand thermal strings caused by the fault currents passing through it, but not too large to cause too high expenditure in cable production and too high values of harmful circulating currents appearing in normal operation conditions.
Application of wavelet fuzzy neural network in locating single line to ground fault (SLG) in distribution lines
 This paper proposes a fault location method employing wavelet fuzzy neural network to use post-fault transient and steady-state measurements. When single line to ground fault (SLG) occurs in the distribution lines of an industrial system, the transient feature is distinct and the high frequency components in the transients can be employed to reveal fault characteristics. In this paper, wavelet transform is applied to extract fault characteristics from the fault signals. Fuzzy theory and neural network are employed to fuzzify the extracted information. Wavelet is then integrated with fuzzy neural network to form the wavelet fuzzy neural network (WFNN). The WFNN is most suitable for post-fault transient and steady-state signal analysis in industrial distribution power system. Analysis and simulation results illustrate that the theory and algorithm of the WFNN proposed in this paper are efficient in fault location. The WFNN can be widely applied in fault analysis of power system.
Microgrid fault detection based on wavelet transformation and Park’s vector approach
 This paper presents a new algorithm for fault detection in microgrids application. This algorithm is used in real time by applying the dq0 and wavelet transformation over local measurements. This approach consists of transforming three-phase voltage or current signals into dq0 components to analyze its behavior during faults in order to then recognize patterns that indicate the start of a fault. By filtering one of the dq0 components through the wavelet transformation, and by isolating band frequencies of interest, faults can be detected using the finite difference between samples of the filtered signal. In order to demonstrate the algorithm’s performance, we have performed an experiment on a scaled microgrid and worked with the data obtained from this simulation. This algorithm will likely impact the development of new microgrid architectures with fewer resources directed to power monitoring.
Locating lightning strikes and flashovers along overhead power transmission lines using electromagnetic time reversal
 The paper presents a method to identify the location of direct lightning strikes to overhead transmission lines and potential subsequent flashover(s). The method is based on the electromagnetic time reversal theory and relies on the use of a single measurement point to record voltage transient signals originated by a direct lightning strike either on the phase conductors or shielding wires, and possible flashovers. The measurement system is supposed to be installed on the secondary winding of the transformer located at the line feeding substation. The performance of the proposed method, applicable for different power network topologies, is validated by using different numerical simulations applied to various case studies. The paper also discusses the impact of the grounding system model, high-frequency transformer model, presence of surge arresters as well as soil electrical parameters.
Fault Diagnostics
 Fault diagnostics mainly includes fault location and fault identification. As spacecraft system structures and module compositions are becoming increasingly complex, the types of faults are also increasing. Some fault characteristics are obvious and can physically be detected; however, as most fault situations are complex, there is often no simple one-to-one correspondence between the fault symptoms and the faults. Fault diagnostics difficulties for spacecraft system are increasing due to the fuzziness, randomness and the unpredictability of fault symptoms, and the system monitoring data. System failure usually occurs in the early failure stage when the system or subsystem has not yet failed and there are no obvious fault symptoms on the system level. However, ignoring system module-level failure can lead to subsystem failure or even more serious accidents. Therefore, this chapter focuses on the fault diagnostics of the subsystem and its modules and discusses the main problems for spacecraft system fault diagnostics.
Boost inverter-based HVDC transmission system with inherent blocking capability of AC side contribution during DC side faults
 Semiconductor advancements in the past three decades have positioned the voltage source converter-based HVDC (VSC-HVDC) solution as a practical and popular alternative to its line-commutated converter high voltage DC (LCC-HVDC) counterpart. The VSC-HVDC systems offer higher flexibility and system controllability features. One of the important challenges requiring careful investigation in such systems is the protection against DC side faults. Unfortunately, the VSC is inherently defenseless against such faults (DC link short circuit or DC cable short circuit). This paper proposes an HVDC system topology, namely, the boost inverter-based HVDC system (BI-HVDC), which provides complete blocking capability between the AC grid and the DC side fault. This blocking capability limits the DC fault current level to the DC capacitor discharge current. Ratings and characteristics of the proposed system compared to other existing topologies are highlighted in this work. A simulation study is conducted to check the performance of the proposed system during normal as well as abnormal operating conditions. A comparison between the performance of the conventional 2-level VSC-HVDC and the proposed system during DC side faults is also presented. The simulation results elucidate a significant decrease in the DC fault current due to the blocking capability of the BI-HVDC system during DC side faults.
Earth wires currents calculation by tableau analysis
 The paper presents a new method to compute a phase-to-earth fault current distribution in overhead transmission line. The method is based on the tableau analysis of an unbalanced, multi-wire model of a transmission line. It allows for the calculation of current distribution in overhead earth wires along the transmission line. Additionally, it may be used to calculate currents in a tower’s earthing system as well as voltages over every tower of the transmission line. The method can be used for analysis of any type of transmission line (single circuit, double circuit and multi-circuit lines) with any number of earth wires. The calculation results may be used for complex designs of transmission line earthing systems, earth wire thermal rating selection, and the evaluation of shock hazards.
A new multiple line outage identification formulation using a sparse vector recovery technique
 This paper develops new methods to estimate the locations of transmission line outages in transmission networks. Two transmission outage models are developed based on DC and AC power flow equations and injected power changes due to line outages. The models are then generalized to include other transmission lines in addition to the outaged lines to provide a full representation of transmission networks. Three methods are developed based on the DC and AC models: Method_1 uses the DC power flow model; Method_2 uses the AC power flow model with zero line resistance; Method_3 uses the AC power flow model with line losses taken into account. A regularized least square based on ℓ1-norm minimization is developed to solve the models and estimate the locations of outages. Simulation results of the IEEE 39-, 57- and 118-bus systems verify the effectiveness of the developed methods in detecting line outage locations.
Sparsity-enhanced signal decomposition via generalized minimax-concave penalty for gearbox fault diagnosis
 Vibration signals arising from faulty gearboxes are often a mixture of the meshing component and the periodic transient component, and simultaneously contaminated by noise. Sparsity-assisted signal decomposition is an effective technique to decompose a signal into morphologically distinct components based on sparse representation and optimization. In this paper, we propose a sparsity-enhanced signal decomposition method which uses the generalized minimax-concave (GMC) penalty as a nonconvex regularizer to enhance sparsity in the sparse approximation compared to classical sparsity-assisted signal decomposition methods, and thus to improve the decomposition accuracy for gearbox fault diagnosis. Even though the GMC penalty itself is nonconvex, it maintains the convexity of the GMC regularized cost function to be minimized. Hence, similar to the classical L1-norm regularization methods, the global optimal solution can be guaranteed via convex optimization. Moreover, we present and validate a straight-forward way to choose transforms and set parameters for the proposed method. Through simulation studies, it is demonstrated that the proposed sparsity-enhanced signal decomposition method can effectively decompose the simulated faulty gearbox signal into the meshing component and the periodic transient component. Comparisons with the classical L1-norm regularized signal decomposition method and spectral kurtosis show that the proposed method can accurately preserve the amplitude of the periodic transient component and provide a more accurate estimation result. Experiment and engineering case studies further verify that the proposed method can accurately estimate the periodic transient component from vibration signals, which demonstrate that the proposed method is a promising tool for gearbox fault diagnosis.
General equations of lumped parameter ladder circuits and a special approach to analyzing electrical line transient states
 The presented analytical procedure gives the equations that can be named as the General Equations of Lumped Parameter Ladder Circuits. The procedure is based on representing an electrical line through its lumped parameter model, applying the principle of superposition, and summation of the finite and infinite geometric series. The developed analytical procedure results in relatively simple analytical expressions for the relationship between currents and voltages at different points of transmission line models in both transient and steady state conditions. Also, the developed analytical procedure follows one by one all the phases of the actual physical process occurring during transient states in transmission lines. As such, this procedure is convenient for determination of power frequency over-voltages during a transient state of a transmission or distribution line. As an illustration of this, the paper presents a numerical example of determination of switching over-voltage at the open end of a transmission line.
On-Line Fast Motor Fault Diagnostics Based on Fuzzy Neural Networks
 An on-line method was developed to improve diagnostic accuracy and speed for analyzing running motors on site. On-line pre-measured data was used as the basis for constructing the membership functions used in a fuzzy neural network (FNN) as well as for network training to reduce the effects of various static factors, such as unbalanced input power and asymmetrical motor alignment, to increase accuracy. The preprocessed data and fuzzy logic were used to find the nonlinear mapping relationships between the data and the conclusions. The FNN was then constructed to carry motor fault diagnostics, which gives fast accurate diagnostics. The on-line fast motor fault diagnostics clearly indicate the fault type, location, and severity in running motors. This approach can also be extended to other applications.
Persistent rupture terminations at a restraining bend from slip rates on the eastern Altyn Tagh fault
 Restraining double-bends along strike-slip faults inhibit or permit throughgoing ruptures depending on bend angle, length, and prior rupture history. Modeling predicts that for mature strike-slip faults in a regional stress regime characterized by simple shear, a restraining bend of >18° and >4 km length impedes propagating rupture. Indeed, natural evidence shows that the most recent rupture(s) of the Xorkoli section (90°–93°E) of the eastern Altyn Tagh fault (ATF) ended at large restraining bends. However, when multiple seismic cycles are considered in numerical dynamic rupture modeling, heterogeneous residual stresses enable some ruptures to propagate further, modulating whether the bends persistently serve as barriers. These models remain to be tested using observations of the cumulative effects of multiple earthquake ruptures. Here we investigate whether a large restraining double-bend on the ATF serves consistently as a barrier to rupture by measuring long-term slip rates around the terminus of its most recent surface rupture at the Aksay bend. Our results show a W—E decline in slip as the SATF enters the bend, as would be predicted from repeated rupture terminations there. Prior work demonstrated no Holocene slip on the central, most misoriented portion of the bend, while 19–79 m offsets suggest that multiple ruptures have occurred on the west side of the bend during the Holocene. Thus we conclude the gradient in the SATF's slip rate results from the repeated termination of earthquake ruptures there. However, a finite slip rate east of the bend represents the transmission of some slip, suggesting that a small fraction of ruptures may fully traverse or jump the double-bend. This agreement between natural observations of slip accumulation and multi-cycle models of fault rupture enables us to translate observed slip rates into insight about the dynamic rupture process of individual earthquakes as they encounter geometric complexities along faults.
Analysis of overvoltages in overhead ground wires of extra high voltage (EHV) power transmission line under single-phase-to-ground faults
 Overhead ground wires (GW) of extra high voltage (EHV) power transmission lines, apart from lightning-induced overvoltage protection are frequently used for carrier-current communication. In this case the ground wires are suspended on insulators, the dielectric strength of which should be sufficient for the line operational conditions. The insulation level is defined from the condition of the single-line-to-ground (SLG) fault, thus insulator protecting spark gaps should not be flashed-over during such conditions — in order to maintain continuity of the communication channel along the line. Overvoltages during such faults depend on many parameters such as fault place, fault angle, pre-fault load etc. Therefore, designers should investigate the problem for determination of the worst-case scenario. In this paper, dependence of the overvoltages on 750 kV power transmission line ground wires upon the SLG fault place and pre-fault load of the line in transient and steady states is investigated. The analysis was performed by using dynamic arc model incorporated into the EMTP program. The provided simulations show that adequately introduced primary and secondary arc models are decisive factors for an accurate simulation of the electromagnetic phenomena in the EHV transmission lines during an arc crossing-over (here the primary arc plays an important role) and during so called dead-time, when the secondary arc takes place. This paper gives some recommendations for the insulator strings coordination in the 750 kV earth wires on the basis of computer simulation results.
On Seismicity and Structural Style of Oceanic Transform Faults: A Field Geological Perspective From the Troodos Ophiolite, Cyprus
 Aseismic creep accommodates the majority of displacements along active oceanic transform faults, within their thermally defined seismogenic zones. The significant earthquakes that do occur are near periodic, and repeat in nearly constant locations. Neither of these observations is explained by the current models that infer an olivine-dominated rheology and a thermally controlled seismogenic zone. In this contribution, we review the geological observations from the exhumed Southern Troodos Transform Fault Zone of Cyprus, and discuss their implications for seismogenesis at modern oceanic transform faults. In crustal level rocks, displacement was accommodated on discrete faults and in broad breccia zones, whereas at mantle levels the dominant structures are serpentinite mélanges overprinting rare and volumetrically minor, ductilely deformed peridotites. We speculate that the seismic style of crustal level faults depends on whether slip is localized or distributed over a broad zone that must dilate during shear. At mantle levels, we highlight that the dominant deforming material is serpentinite, at least when—as in the case of Troodos—sufficient hydration has taken place. Our observations and inferences imply that transform fault seismicity depends on time-, strain-, and permeability-dependent processes, and is governed by the geological complexity at a range of scales.
Fault tolerant adaptive parallel and distributed simulation through functional replication
 This paper presents FT-GAIA, a software-based fault-tolerant parallel and distributed simulation middleware. FT-GAIA has being designed to reliably handle Parallel And Distributed Simulation (PADS) models, which are needed to properly simulate and analyze complex systems arising in any kind of scientific or engineering field. PADS takes advantage of multiple execution units run in multicore processors, cluster of workstations or HPC systems. However, large computing systems, such as HPC systems that include hundreds of thousands of computing nodes, have to handle frequent failures of some components. To cope with this issue, FT-GAIA transparently replicates simulation entities and distributes them on multiple execution nodes. This allows the simulation to tolerate crash-failures of computing nodes. Moreover, FT-GAIA offers some protection against Byzantine failures, since interaction messages among the simulated entities are replicated as well, so that the receiving entity can identify and discard corrupted messages. Results from an analytical model and from an experimental evaluation show that FT-GAIA provides a high degree of fault tolerance, at the cost of a moderate increase in the computational load of the execution units.
Thermal Fault-Detection method and analysis of peripheral systems for large battery packs
 Complex electrical systems such as battery packs are pushed further to comply with the continuously rising demands for power, energy and safety. This triangle of requirements needs to be optimized in all three directions, but has to be well balanced using as much information about the battery’s parameters, such as temperature. Today’s battery packs lack of gapless temperature acquisition due to a limited sensor count. To increase the temperature information count and herewith the safety, additional sensors would need to be installed, which is rather expensive. A different approach is provided in this paper: Already existent wire harnesses are put into a secondary use to acquire thermal hotspots. Additionally, the proposed method allows to localize the thermal event which leads to a more detailed knowledge of battery pack’s thermal situation. By accomplishing a gapless temperature supervision, the mentioned requirement triangle can be further optimized to match future application demands.
A strategy for protection of high voltage systems using resistive superconducting fault current limiters
 This work describes an use of a resistive superconducting fault current limiter (R-SFCL) device based on second generation high temperature superconductors tapes (2G tapes), using a thermal-electrical analogy method to represent heat exchanges. The considered SFCL is supposed to be inserted into the coupling point of a new generation unit to a 12 bar CIGRE benchmark transmission system. The strategy is the investigation of the limitation performance in the high voltage grid by connecting the SFCL at medium voltage grid. We evaluated the performance of the SFCL through the analysis of two cases of faults in different points of the system. Results show that a correct design of the SFCL may effectively limit the contribution of fault currents in the high voltage side. Additionally, it was possible to investigate the behavior of the device internal variables such as the temperature of the superconducting layers for the different cases studied.
Fault analysis of solar photovoltaic penetrated distribution systems including overcurrent relays in presence of fluctuations
 Intermittence from solar photovoltaic (PV) source can deteriorate overcurrent relays (OCRs) response to fault. This paper proposes a method for fault analysis with OCRs consideration to discuss relays faults currents fluctuations in time against PV fluctuations. The simulated PV fluctuations are short time dynamic high and low irradiations fluctuations and PV connection and disconnection based PV-dominated feeders. Two distribution systems (DSs) based accurate PV systems are modeled separately with and without Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) for the purpose of proposed method. Series and parallels PV modules are arranged to model accurate 6.5 kV PV farm power. Two level three-phase voltage source inverter (VSI), DC-DC boost converter and LCL filter are applied for each PV system. Precise detailed control strategies are implemented in PSCAD software. This paper proposed method complies with congestion which is frequently avoided in literature. The results discussions based proposed method clarified PV fluctuations scenarios impacts on OCRs dynamic fault currents profiles in presence and absence of BESS and clearly revealed and argued related important findings. In addition, OCRs performance is shortly analyzed based particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm efficiently coded in Matlab. The obtained results could be very profitable to power system relaying operators to handle protection challenges with PV power fluctuations.
Fault Analysis, Detection and Estimation for a Microgrid via H2/H∞LPV Observers
 This works addresses the problem of Fault Detection and Diagnosis and provides a solution based on the use of multiple Linear Parameter Varying (LPV) extended-state observers coupled with simple search algorithm. This methodology is applied to a Grid-Connected Hybrid Power Plant, with different renewable sources, such as photovoltaic panels, wind power generation and the use of biomass. This plant might present different possible faults, that can lead it not to comply to its operational constraints, such as communication problems, valve malfunctions, vapor leakages and others. All these possible faults are carefully categorized based on empirical information from real plants in Brazil. The Fault Detection and Diagnosis (FDD) system designed aims to estimate and categorize these faults and, to do so, the proposed LPV observers are derived from LMI computation of the mixed H2/H∞ norm minimization, in such a way to reduce the effect of noise and external disturbances upon the fault estimation. Through high-fidelity simulations, the benefits of the presented method is discussed.
Single-ended travelling wave-based protection scheme for double-circuit transmission lines
 In this paper, a new single-ended travelling wave-based protection scheme for double-circuit lines is proposed. It is developed to operate in parallel with traditional phasor-based protective relays and is able to accelerate the tripping time in most fault scenarios. The proposed method considers the propagation of travelling waves in a loop formed by the faulted and healthy line circuits. Disturbances within a given protected zone can be reliably detected according to the amplitude, polarity and time difference between the arrival instants of travelling waves that reach the monitored terminal. Also, the accumulative cross-differential current deviation is used to confirm internal faults, distinguishing them from other non-fault events. From the analysis of massive digital fault simulations and actual field records, it is attested that the proposed protection is feasible and effective.
Blinded Comparison between an In-Air Reverberation Method and an Electronic Probe Tester in the Detection of Ultrasound Probe Faults
 The aim of this study was to perform a blinded trial, comparing the results of a visual inspection of the in-air reverberation pattern with the results of an electronic probe tester in detecting ultrasound probe faults. Sixty-two probes were tested. A total of 28 faults were found, 3 only by in-air reverberation assessment and 2 only by the electronic probe tester. The electronic probe tester provided additional information regarding the location of the fault in 74% of the cases in which both methods detected a fault. It is possible to detect the majority of probe faults by visual inspection and in-air reverberation assessment. The latter provides an excellent first-line test, easily performed on a daily basis by equipment users. An electronic probe tester is required if detailed evaluation of faults is necessary.
A review on different pipeline fault detection methods
 Pipeline faults like leakage and blockage always create problem for engineers. Detection of exact fault quantity and its location is necessary for smooth functioning of a plant or industry and safety of the environment. In this paper brief discussion is made on various pipeline fault detection methods viz. Vibration analysis, Pulse echo methodology, Acoustic techniques, Negative pressure wave based leak detection system, Support Vector Machine (SVM) based pipeline leakage detection, Interferometric fibre sensor based leak detection, Filter Diagonalization Method (FDM), etc. In this paper merit and demerits of all methods are discussed. It is found that these methods have been applied for specific fluids like oil, gas and water, for different layout patterns like straight and zigzag, for various lengths of pipeline like short and long and also depending on various operating conditions. Therefore, a comparison among all methods has been done based on their applicability. Among all fault detection methods, Acoustic reflectometry is found most suitable because of its proficiency to identify blockages and leakage in pipe as small as 1% of its diameter. Moreover this method is economical and applicable for straight, zigzag and long, short length pipes for low, medium and high density fluid.
Nominal features-based class specific learning model for fault diagnosis in industrial applications
 Fault Detection and Isolation (FDI) is an initial stage of the real-time fault diagnosis in industrial applications. The increase in a number of faults will increase the size of the features that limit the accuracy. This paper proposes the suitable technique to extract the relevant features and classify the faults accordingly. Initially, the preprocessing removes the unfilled entries in the fault dataset (after the data collected from the sensor). Then, the Minimal Relevant Feature extraction predicts the features that correspond to the six types of fault classes. The minimum and maximum ranges of voltage, current, vibrations and speed due to the above classes regarded as the features. The modified objective function for class-specific support vector machine (CS-SVM) classifies the fault classes which highly contribute to the early diagnosis. The relevant feature prior to the Classification increases the accuracy effectively. The variations of voltage, current, and motor speed according to the injection of vibration faults from the motor bearings determine the impacts effectively. The comparison between the proposed Minimal Relevant Features-based Classification (MRFC) with existing SVM regarding the accuracy, precision, recall, sensitivity, specificity and coefficient (Jaccard, Dice and Kappa) confirms the effectiveness of proposed MRFC in earlier fault diagnosis in industrial applications.
A new technique for improving stability of distributed synchronous generators during temporary faults in a distribution network
 A system is developed for performing coordinated control of operation of distributed synchronous generators during transients caused by disturbances due to faults in the interconnecting network. For this purpose a braking resistor is used where excess electrical energy is dissipated, thus preventing over-speeding and loss of synchronism of the machine during transient processes caused by temporary faults and actions of the protection system together with the system for automatic reclose of the line. In addition to controlling the operation of the braking resistor, the proposed system performs a coordinated control of the excitation of the generator. The coordinated control of the braking resistor and excitation voltage of the generator provides a good fault ride through capacity of the machine even during faults when the generator stays in the island operating mode for some time. The functionality and practical applicability of the developed system have been tested by dynamic simulations carried out on a real model of a hydro-aggregate incorporating a synchronous machine and with real parameters of a distribution network. The simulations were performed by using program package DIgSILENT PowerFactory.
Corridors of crestal and radial faults linking salt diapirs in the Espírito Santo Basin, SE Brazil
 This work uses high-quality 3D seismic data to assess the geometry of fault families around salt diapirs in SE Brazil (Espírito Santo Basin). It aims at evaluating the timings of fault growth, and suggests the generation of corridors for fluid migration linking discrete salt diapirs. Three salt diapirs, one salt ridge, and five fault families were identified based on their geometry and relative locations. Displacement-length (D-x) plots, Throw-depth (T-z) data and structural maps indicate that faults consist of multiple segments that were reactivated by dip-linkage following a preferential NE–SW direction. This style of reactivation and linkage is distinct from other sectors of the Espírito Santo Basin where the preferential mode of reactivation is by upwards vertical propagation. Reactivation of faults above a Mid-Eocene unconformity is also scarce in the study area. Conversely, two halokinetic episodes dated as Cretaceous and Paleogene are interpreted below a Mid-Eocene unconformity. This work is important as it recognises the juxtaposition of permeable strata across faults as marking the generation of fault corridors linking adjacent salt structures. In such a setting, fault modelling shows that fluid will migrate towards the shallower salt structures along the fault corridors first identified in this work.
Coordination of overcurrent protection relays in networks with superconducting fault current limiters
 The paper concerns coordination of overcurrent (OC) protection relays in power networks with superconducting fault current limiters (SFCL). At the beginning, information about designed SFCL and conditions that ensure overcurrent protection coordination are presented. Next, settings of the overcurrent relays were determined for a sample network with SFCL model installed. The considered HV/MV power system was modeled in the ATP/EMTP software and the effects of OC relays coordination was analyzed. At the end, conclusions from conducted studies and resulting guidelines for protection coordination are provided.
Calculation of overvoltage on nearby underground metal pipeline due to the lightning strike on UHV AC transmission line tower
 Making use of EMTP, the transient simulation of the currents along the towers and ground wires is performed when the lightning strikes the tower of the power transmission line. The investigation shows that the currents along the towers and ground wires dramatically decrease and can be ignored after 5 spans. And the effect on them for different impulse ground impedances, lightning current injection locations, tower spans, lightning wave impedances and so on are obtained when lightning strike on tower. With the help of Fourier transform, the method of moment is adopted to calculate the transient coating stress voltage of the pipeline and total electric field in the earth when the underground pipeline runs parallel to or crosses the power transmission line. The approximate formulas of the maximum coating stress voltage along the pipeline are proposed for the situation of crossing, which involve the lightning current, soil resistivity, pipeline models, tower grounding structure sizes and separation distance between the pipeline and tower grounding structure. Then, the proposed method can be used to evaluate the safety distance between the pipeline and tower grounding structure with the lightning electrical strength of the anti-corrosion coating of the pipeline. Eventually, if actual distance is less than the calculated value, modeling and analysis of protection measures in the pipeline can be carried out to protect the coating.
Fast S-transform based distance relaying in transmission line
 The paper presents distance relaying of transmission line using Fast S-transform (FST). Basically distance relaying needs a faster and accurate phasor estimation of the fault current and voltage signals, which are used to compute apparent impedance for issuing the tripping signal in case of faulty situations. Originally developed conventional S-transform is an invertible time–frequency spectral localization technique that combines elements of wavelet and short-time Fourier transforms. However, the computational burden (processing time) of conventional S-transform is high and thus, not suitable for on-line applications such as digital protection of transmission lines. However, recent development of FST reduces the computational burden by utilizing downsampling. The FST is found to be accurate and faster compared to conventional S-transform while estimating the phasor and computing impedance trajectory. The accuracy in estimation with high DC off-set and performance in noisy environment ensures the robustness of the FST for relaying applications. The results from extensive study indicate that the FST can suitably replace the existing DFT based algorithm for on-line digital distance relaying task in large power transmission network.
Evaluating Fault Tree by means of Colored Petri nets to analyze the railway system dependability
 Railway system is a safety critical and time-related system, the system’s states and time parameters can be used to carry out the dependability and hazard analysis. Fault Tree is widely recognized as a standard evaluating method. However, restricted by the commercial products, the Fault Tree is limited to assess dynamic systems with event-repair operations and time-related attributions. Additionally, it is difficult to incorporate non-linear relationships such as feedback. The quality assurance for fault trees and events trees is mainly carried out by peer review. Combinatory limitations are encountered when modeling complex events with classical methods. Thus, this paper proposes a new method to represent and extend the Fault Tree in Colored Petri nets. Due to large calculation capabilities of CPNs, these limitations can be able to overcome. Additionally, it can be reused for customizations. The accuracy of the approach is verified by using model-based simulation and state space analysis. The performance and benefits of the new approach are demonstrated by investigating train to train collision failure models. To increase the safety demanding needs of railway transportation, we propose a new train movement authority plus system (MA+) in this paper. With the assistance of the wireless communication technology, MA+ can detect the condition of approaching switches and encountering trains within a certain range. The results indicate that the new MA+ can reduce the risk of train head to tail collisions. What is more, the new evaluation method can offer much more essential information, which involves maintenance components, model correctness verification, time factors, and mathematical calculation together, than the traditional Fault Tree Analysis.
Concealed fault analysis based on the CT projection matrix
 This paper proposes the concept of projection curves based on the theory of CT image reconstruction to probe the internal structure of the working panel prior to formal mining of the working panel. As well as reducing costs, this method provides safe and efficient excavation of the working panel. According to the results of the numerical model and the actual working panel, the new method has been proven to be accurate in detecting the location of the fault that extends into the face. Concealed faults of the internal working panel, as well as the start and end points of the fault, can be detected by this method. Engineering practice has proven that the method is highly reliable, has a highly decisive impact on faults for coal mining, and can be used to guide the safe mining of the working panel.
Sliding window assessment for sensor fault model-based diagnosis in inland waterways
 The Cuinchy-Fontinettes reach belongs to the inland waterways in the north of France. It is equipped with limnimeters that measure water level data for the management of the water resources. These data can be corrupted by constant or intermittent faults. Hence, it is necessary to detect and localize these faults in order to guarantee efficient management actions. The proposed fault diagnosis method is based on the analysis of the parameters of a grey-box model. These parameters are obtained from available real data by using a sliding window, whose size is determined based on the level of excitation of input signals. Then, several scenarios involving constant and intermittent faults are proposed to discuss the performance of the proposed FDI approach as well as the effect of the sliding window size on the results.
Microscopic features of quartz and clay particles from fault gouges and infilled fractures in granite: Discriminating between active and inactive faulting
 To assist in identifying faults that have a significant potential for displacement at or near the ground surface, we carried out in-depth investigations on fault gouges and a fracture infilled with clay (clay vein) in the Kojaku Granite on the Tsuruga Peninsula, central Japan. We sampled several fault gouges at different stages of evolutions and clay-rich infilling of a fracture with no evidence of offset. Based on our field observations, gouge in an active fault is characterized by 1) stacked layers of different colors made up of comminuted fragments and clays, and 2) injection of the fragments and clays from the gouge into the surrounding rocks, indicating an accumulation of seismic-induced shearing. Our thin-section observations and X-ray diffraction analyses show that all our samples are similar in the degree of fragmentation and mineral composition, and because of this, our study became focused mainly on microscopic features using laser diffraction particle size analysis, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). We identified the mineralogical and textural characteristics of the samples in order to improve our ability to discriminate between active and inactive faulting. Particle size distribution analysis showed that the gouge in the active fault contains the greatest abundance of finer particles due to multiple slip events, which contrasts with the clay-rich infilling of a fracture. SEM examination of the quartz particles showed that the gouge in the active fault contains more particles that have retained sharp and smooth crystal surfaces (formed by fracturing) than do either the gouges in minor faults (that show no evidence of recent shear) or the clay-rich infilling of a fracture. In contrast, TEM observations of very fine clay minerals (approximately < 0.2 μm) showed that the minerals in the gouge from the active fault are abraded and corroded to an equal or higher degree than the minerals in gouges from minor faults with no recent shear. Clay minerals in the fault gouges underwent abrasion and dissolution due to repeated fault activity, whereas relatively hard quartz particles that are wrapped with relatively soft clays have been less affected by abrasion. Repeated fault activity involving granite fragmentation in a fault zone results in the continual addition of new quartz particles from the granite, and these particles exhibit sharp and smooth crystal surfaces. Based on the results of the multiple methods described above, we show that examination of the surface textures of quartz particles is a useful tool for understanding the differences between active and inactive faulting in granitic rocks.
Distribution drop fiber in-service fault management in enhanced EPON system
 Ethernet passive optical network (EPON) is considered one of the best candidates for next-generation optical access solutions. Practical and cost-effective survivability and maintenance mechanisms are therefore becoming the key issues for continued development of viable EPON solutions. In addition, 80% of faults occur within the first/last mile. Therefore, in this paper, we propose in-service integrated fault management mechanisms at the distribution drop fibers (DDFs) in EPON. The proposed mechanisms can automatically detect and identify any signal anomalies and DDF faults in the physical layer, thus decreasing the operating expense (OpEx) to be incurred in sending off technicians in the field. The mechanisms are two-fold: pre-fault and post-fault. In the pre-fault mechanism, we use optical receiver type/length/value (TLV) code as a sensor for triggering the embedded miniaturized optical-time-domain reflectometry (OTDR), placed at optical network units (ONUs). This mechanism observes and measures the abnormal condition and reports it to the optical line terminal (OLT), via restoration plan fiber link. In post-fault mechanism, we divide the ONUs into several restoration groups (RGs) to guarantee upstream transmission of the affected ONUs. Lastly, the fault dynamic bandwidth allocation for fault management, referred as FDBA, is presented. Simulation results show that the proposed mechanisms can withstand DDF faults without any significant impact on the overall quality of service (QoS) performance, in terms of mean packet delay, queue length, system throughput, and packet loss.
Data-driven Method in Detecting CAN Network Intermittent Connection Fault
 The reliability of the network is critical to the performance and the safety of manufacturing systems. Controller area network (CAN) has been widely adopted due to its electrical robustness, low price and deterministic access delay. However, there are numerous factors that can sabotage the reliability of networks. The fault at intermittent connection (IC) of the network cable is one of the major issues. When multiple IC faults occur in the network, especially on the trunk cable, the troubleshooting for these IC faults becomes very difficult. IC problems may result in delayed or deceptive information of machines and production status which can severely impede manufacturing normal operation. To improve the network reliability and communication quality, a novel data-driven fault detection methodology is developed in this paper, which can locate multiple IC faults in the network. By analyzing IC induced network errors, the characteristics of error frames can be captured. The information extracted from the error frames is utilized to filter the network error and facilitate a two-level procedure to identify the IC faults. Case studies are performed to demonstrate the proposed method. This research provides a multiple IC faults location method which is accurate and easy to implement.
Source-location privacy full protection in wireless sensor networks
 In many scenarios, the locations of monitored targets need to be reported by source nodes, but should remain anonymous in wireless sensor networks. Source-location privacy protection is an important research topic. Many schemes have been designed based on different adversarial models. In this paper, a scheme named Source-location Privacy Full Protection (SPFP) is proposed. We consider a more practical adversarial model — a smart adversary — which is a combination of global and local models. To defend against the new adversary, first, we design a lightweight message sharing scheme that is based on congruence equations. Second, each message is mapped to a set of shares. The short lengths of the shares enable them to be processed and transmitted in an energy-efficient manner. The correctness and security of the scheme are proved in theorems. In addition, the proposed message sharing scheme can tolerate the unreliability of the sensor nodes and provides a more reliable data transmission mechanism for networks. Third, the source node constructs a cloud around itself based on the shares and dummy packages to hide its location. The radio actions of the nodes in the cloud are carefully arranged to conceal the real shares from the adversaries and render the nodes in the cloud statistically indistinguishable. Last, a random routing algorithm is seamlessly integrated into our scheme to deliver the real shares from the fake source nodes to the sink node, where the original message is reconstructed based on the received shares. The simulation results illustrate that our scheme can provide adequate protection of source-location privacy with a slight increase in energy consumption.
Windbreaks working as barriers to high speed winds for protection of electric power transmission lines and towers
 The effects of bad weather conditions on transmission lines associated with high speed wind events have concerned not only industry players, but also the government and consumers of electricity. Recently in Brazil, events of this nature have caused large-scale disruptions in the supply of electricity, resulting in direct economic losses throughout the chain of production and consumption. This paper aimed to propose a methodology for reduction of the occurrence of faults in transmission lines and towers related to high speed wind events and gusts, including a safety analysis and recommendation for corrective maintenance. Results are based on a R&D project, with its development including: a) the identification of transmission line faults occurred in Brazil, with wind events as the main underlying cause; b) the description of wind tunnel tests and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modeling results aiming at exploring the effectiveness of windbreaks (tree rows alongside the transmission line corridors) as a mean to reduce wind impacts against towers and transmission lines; c) recommendations to reduce the risks of collapse of the transmission infrastructure of large-scale electric power systems which are exposed to extreme weather events. The research development was supported by State Grid Brazil, as a part of their R&D investment in its subsidiary company, Porto Primavera Transmissora de Energia (PPTE) during the years of 2014 and 2015.
Fault-resilient localization for underwater sensor networks
 Localization is one of the critical issues in underwater sensor networks (UWSNs) on grounds of environmental characteristics, mobility of sensor nodes, and lack of global positioning system (GPS) services. Mobility modeling and fault tolerance with respect to underwater characteristics are extremely difficult. In this energy constraint network, an adaptive localization scheme with minimum communication and GPS support is required. We propose a fault-resilient localization scheme, which provides good localization accuracy with minimal communication overhead. To resile from an anchor node failure, a sensor node predicts its position by learning the mobility behavior of its neighbors using multiple linear regression. Therefore, the data dissemination process can continue even after an unexpected case of anchor node failure. We simulate the network and analyze the localization accuracy. Several experiments with different test cases are conducted to analyze the validity of the location prediction system. Experimental results show that the last 10 location information from three immediate neighbors are adequate for accurate prediction and the localization scheme is well suited for medium-range UWSNs.
Fault detection and monitoring systems for photovoltaic installations: A review
 As any energy production system, photovoltaic (PV) installations have to be monitored to enhance system performances and to early detect failures for more reliability. There are several photovoltaic monitoring strategies based on the output of the plant and its nature. Monitoring can be performed locally on site or remotely. It measures production, focuses also on verification and follow-up of converter and communication devices' effective operation. Up to now, some faults diagnosis methods for PV components and systems have been developed. However, given the evolution of PV installations, more advanced monitoring techniques are continuously under investigation. In this paper, major photovoltaic system failures are addressed. Then techniques for photovoltaic monitoring proposed in recent literature are overviewed and analyzed to point out their differences, advantages and limits.
Two methods for modeling vibrations of planetary gearboxes including faults: Comparison and validation
 Planetary gearboxes are important components of many industrial applications. Vibration analysis can increase their lifetime and prevent expensive repair and safety concerns. However, an effective analysis is only possible if the vibration features of planetary gearboxes are properly understood. In this paper, models are used to study the frequency content of planetary gearbox vibrations under non-fault and different fault conditions. Two different models are considered: phenomenological model, which is an analytical-mathematical formulation based on observation, and lumped-parameter model, which is based on the solution of the equations of motion of the system. Results of both models are not directly comparable, because the phenomenological model provides the vibration on a fixed radial direction, such as the measurements of the vibration sensor mounted on the outer part of the ring gear. On the other hand, the lumped-parameter model provides the vibrations on the basis of a rotating reference frame fixed to the carrier. To overcome this situation, a function to decompose the lumped-parameter model solutions to a fixed reference frame is presented. Finally, comparisons of results from both model perspectives and experimental measurements are presented.
Simplified evaluation of pipe strains crossing a normal fault through the dissipated energy method
 A dissipated energy method is proposed in this paper to calculate the maximum and minimum pipe strains crossing a normal fault perpendicularly. Two plastic hinges are assumed to form on either side of the fault plane. The curved pipe segment between plastic hinges has different lengths on the footwall and hanging wall sides due to the difference in bearing and uplift soil resistances. A curved pipe length ratio is determined for use in deriving simplified geometric relations. Four energy components are then computed considering rotations at plastic hinges, plastic elongations of the curved pipe segment, and yielding of axial, uplift and bearing soil springs. Minimization of dissipated energy is carried out to find the optimal position of the curved pipe segment for different fault offset. The pipe strains evaluated from the proposed technique are compared with calculations using the existing three-beam analytical method and centrifuge experiments. Upon the successful calibration of the calculation model, a sensitivity analysis is performed to assess the influence of backfill material, dip angle, burial depth and pipe strength. In the end, an illustrative example is presented to employ the developed analysis framework to run fragility analysis for three pipelines with different diameter to thickness ratios.
A case study of sample entropy analysis to the fault detection of bearing in wind turbine
 Rolling bearing is an important and fragile component in the wind turbine transmission system. The failure of rolling bearing is one of the highest risk events which may result in unexpected economic loss. To give a proper condition assessment of rolling bearing, especially for early fault detection, is of great importance and become an urgent issue to the wind energy industry. In this paper, sample entropy is studied through the field data of wind turbine transmission system measured from Lu Nan Wind Farm in China. Compared with several frequently used statistical indicators, sample entropy features advantages in detecting and evaluating the progress of the early faults of the rolling bearing. The studies show that the sample entropy is an effective and practical tool for condition monitoring of rolling bearing for a wind turbine transmission system.
Exogenous Fault Detection and Recovery for Swarm Robotics
 A robotic swarm needs to maintain continuous operation even in the event of failure of one or more individual robots. Even with a small number of faulty robots, the time for achieving the task will be significantly increased. If the behaviors of biological systems are considered, a number of approaches based on communication, to detect damaged or injured cells or insects can be identified. In this research the transmission of position data between robots has been used as the main method of fault location. The transmission of this data permits members of a robotic swarm to identify and subsequently isolate a faulty robot, either in its drive train or position measurement system. This paper discusses the approach used and presents simulation results.
Identification of the vulnerable transmission segment and cluster of critical machines using line transient potential energy
 When a power system is subjected to a large disturbance, effective identification of vulnerable transmission segment and generator groupings in the electric network contribute to the effective analysis of power system dynamic behaviour and the determination of optimal locations of FACTS devices. Also, computational simple and reliable identification of critical machines is of primary importance in the successful application of direct or hybrid transient stability assessment methods such as TEF, EEAC and hybrid methods. In the paper, a new approach is proposed for identifying the transmission vulnerable segment (the weakest cutset), and then classifying machines into critical cluster and remaining cluster, using a quantitative transmission line vulnerability assessment index derived from the post-fault line transient potential energy and bus voltage changes. The calculation of the index is simple and fast, as only the line flow and bus voltage along the post-fault trajectory are required. Case studies using the IEEE 10-generator and 50-generator test systems are given to illustrate the validity of the proposed method.
Atomic structures of Ruddlesden-Popper faults in LaCoO3/SrRuO3 multilayer thin films induced by epitaxial strain
 In this paper, scanning transmission electron microscopy is used to study the microstructures of the defects in LaCoO3/SrRuO3 multilayer films grown on the SrTiO3 substrates, and these films have different thickness of SrRuO3 (SRO) layers. Several types of Ruddlesden-Popper (R.P.) faults at an atomic level are found, and these chemical composition fluctuations in the growth process are induced by strain fields originating from the film-film and film-substrate lattice mismatches. Furthermore, we propose four types of structural models based on the atomic arrangements of the R.P. planar faults, which severely affect the functional properties of the films.
Fault location for underground distribution feeders: An extended impedance-based formulation with capacitive current compensation
 Underground distribution systems are normally exposed to permanent faults, due to specific construction characteristics. In these systems, visual inspection cannot be performed. In order to enhance service restoration, accurate fault location techniques must be applied. This paper describes an extended impedance-based fault location algorithm for underground distribution systems. The formulation is developed on phase frame and calculates the apparent impedance using only local voltage and current data. The technique also provides an iterative algorithm to compensate the typical capacitive component current of underground cables. Test results are obtained from numerical simulations using a real underground distribution feeder data from the Electrical Energy Distribution State Company of Rio Grande do Sul (CEEE-D), southern Brazil. Comparative results show the techniques accuracy and robustness in respect to fault type, distance and resistance.
A fuzzy logic based fault classification approach using current samples only
 An approach for classification of transmission line faults is presented. The approach is based on fuzzy logic and requires the consideration of the samples of three phase currents at one end of transmission line. To illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach extensive simulation studies, using EMTP and MATLAB, have been carried out for different types of fault considering wide variations in the operating conditions.
Adaptive super-twisting observer for fault reconstruction in electro-hydraulic systems
 An adaptive-gain super-twisting sliding mode observer is proposed for fault reconstruction in electro-hydraulic servo systems (EHSS) receiving bounded perturbations with unknown bounds. The objective is to address challenging problems in classic sliding mode observers: chattering effect, conservatism of observer gains, strong condition on the distribution of faults and uncertainties. In this paper, the proposed super-twisting sliding mode observer relaxes the condition on the distribution of uncertainties and faults, and the gain adaptation law leads to eliminate observer gain overestimation and attenuate chattering effects. After using the equivalent output-error-injection feature of sliding mode techniques, a fault reconstruction strategy is proposed. The experimental results are presented, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed adaptive super-twisting observer for precise fault reconstruction in electro-hydraulic servo systems.
A new time–frequency approach for distance protection in parallel transmission lines operating with STATCOM
 The paper presents a new cross-differential and impedance protection scheme for a parallel transmission system, in the presence of STATCOM. A cumulative sum (CUSUM) approach is used for fault detection by obtaining the measured values of currents in the two lines. Spectral energies of the current signals are then computed by using a new fast discrete S-Transform (FDST) approach for classification of the nature of faults on the lines. The modified transform is based on new scaling, band pass filtering, and interpolation techniques that makes the new variant computationally much faster than the earlier S-Transform and can be implemented in real time. Further the FDST is used to accurately identify the occurrence of the fault before or after the STATCOM and compute the location of the fault using one half cycle data prior to the occurrence of the fault and one half cycle data after the fault has occurred.
Design, implementation, and evaluation of secure communication for line current differential protection systems over packet switched networks
 In this work we propose a secure communication concept for the protection of critical power supply and distribution infrastructure. Especially, we consider the line current differential protection method for modern smart grid implementations. This protection system operates on critical infrastructure, and it requires a precise time behavior on the communication between devices on both ends of a protected power line. Therefore, the communication has to fulfill deterministic constraints and low-delay requirements and additionally needs to be protected against cyber attacks. Existing systems are often either costly and based on deprecated technology or suffering from maloperations. In order to allow for both, economical and reliable operation, we present the first holistic communication concept capable of using state-of-the-art packet switched networks. Our solution consists of three parts: (i) we develop a list of design requirements for line current differential protection systems communication; (ii) we propose a communication concept obeying these design requirements by combining cryptographical and physical security approaches; and (iii) we evaluate our solution in a practical setup. Our evaluation shows a clock accuracy of 3 µs with a resilience to asymmetric delay attacks down to 8 ns/s. This demonstrates the secure and fault-free operation of a line current differential protection system communicating over a state-of-the-art network.
Smart Power Line and photonic de-icer concepts for transmission-line capacity and reliability improvement
 This paper introduces the Smart Power Line (SPL) concept. This novel approach can be implemented on existing transmission lines comprising of single- or multiple-conductor bundles. It can also be applied to new, advanced line schemes. The SPL addresses three important needs: line de-icing, line impedance modulation and line monitoring. Line de-icing (LDI) can be activated prior to or during any severe climatic event, for concentrating the total power line current into one subconductor at a time and therefore de-icing by the Joule effect. Line impedance modulation (LIM) is another feature of the SPL by which line power flow and stability are also controlled by individually switching in and out subconductors of bundled-conductor lines, thereby modifying the net line impedance directly and dynamically. Line monitoring (LMO) provides real-time data related to electrical, mechanical or climatic events needed for line de-icing, power flow or stability control. By combining these three functions together, the SPL concept is expected to improve transmission-line reliability and transmission-line capacity. The power line reliability and life expectancy are increased by avoiding line and tower collapse due to ice deposits, hard rime or wet snow, reducing metal fatigue and avoiding failure due to galloping. The SPL concept can be applied to bundled-conductor transmission lines at any voltage level (HV and UHV). In addition to the SPL concept, new de-icing equipment, the so-called photonic de-icer, is also introduced in this paper. In order to ensure the mechanical robustness of the transmission line in the event of severe ice storms, past experience has shown that the switchgear must be maintained operational at all times. The photonic de-icer is operated at ground level and at ground potential to melt ice on substation apparatus or to keep the latter warm during icing events.
Extra high speed hybrid protection scheme for high voltage transmission line
 To improve the reliability of traveling wave protection, this paper proposes a hybrid protection scheme based on the traveling wave polarity comparison principle and current differential principle. In this scheme, the traveling wave relay is primary and the current differential relay is supplementary. Two complementary relays simultaneously operate to ensure that the hybrid protection has a good performance. For the general faults, the traveling wave relay can fast discriminate internal faults from external faults using the polarity characteristics of initial current traveling wave. For some special fault conditions, the identification result for fault is determined by the current differential relay. Therefore, the sensitivity and reliability of traditional traveling wave protection may be greatly improved. Using the same hardware platform and only requiring current signal, the hybrid scheme is easily achieved. Simulation results verify that the hybrid protection has fast speed and high reliability level.
Transmission line protection systems with aided communication channels—Part II: Comparative performance analysis
 Following the Part I paper, a comparative performance analysis is presented, considering four different transmission line protection schemes, equipped with aided communication channels. In the Part I paper, the performance analysis methodology was presented, which is based on a probabilistic approach to protection system successful operation. The system performance takes in account equipment reliability factors such as failure rate and time to repair, and is assessed by the availability index. In the present paper, new performance indicators are introduced, which are applicable to transmission line protection system design, as well as to describe its probabilistic operation in other power system studies. Four different transmission line protection schemes with aided communication channels, operating in today's transmission networks, are compared. The results obtained for the performance indicators allow quantifying the benefits of the different design options. In particular, the effect of relay and communication channel redundancy, as well as communication channel sharing, is highlighted. Furthermore, results show that the newly defined performance indicators can be used in a cost/benefit analysis, as well as to assess maintenance strategies and communication reliability requirements.
A functional auxiliary module for 1st-zone conventional distance relays of double-circuit lines to eliminate high fault resistance-introduced under-reach
 This paper presents design steps of an auxiliary module intended to function in conjunction with under-operation 1st-zone conventional distance relays of double-circuit transmission lines. The proposed module pursues the objective of eliminating the underreach of associated ground elements, arising from single-line-to-ground faults of high resistance. It is founded on the online estimation of the fault distance during the faults, through the roots of a non-linear algebraic equation developed in the sequence networks. The equation is mathematically discussed and a fitting numerical algorithm efficiently finding its roots with no concern about the computation burden is chosen. In order to be applicable to the lines of any lengths, particularly long lines, the proposed module is developed through the distributed-parameter based model of double-circuit lines. In addition, it employs only the data acquired at the relaying location and is independent of the network configuration. Important considerations are made for the proposed module, making its function both dependable and secure. Simulation studies conducted in MATLAB and PSCAD/EMTDC examine the proposed module in a variety of influencing situations, and confirm that it accurately fulfills its intended objective within the time frame of the distance protection.
Characterization of faulted dislocation loops and cavities in ion irradiated alloy 800H
 Alloy 800H is a high nickel austenitic stainless steel with good high temperature mechanical properties which is considered for use in current and advanced nuclear reactor designs. The irradiation response of 800H was examined by characterizing samples that had been bulk ion irradiated at the Michigan Ion Beam Laboratory with 5 MeV Fe2+ ions to 1, 10, and 20 dpa at 440 °C. Transmission electron microscopy was used to measure the size and density of both {111} faulted dislocation loops and cavities as functions of depth from the irradiated surface. The faulted loop density increased with dose from 1 dpa up to 10 dpa where it saturated and remained approximately the same until 20 dpa. The faulted loop average diameter decreased between 1 dpa and 10 dpa and again remained approximately constant from 10 dpa to 20 dpa. Cavities were observed after irradiation doses of 10 and 20 dpa, but not after 1 dpa. The average diameter of cavities increased with dose from 10 to 20 dpa, with a corresponding small decrease in density. Cavity denuded zones were observed near the irradiated surface and near the ion implantation peak. To further understand the microstructural evolution of this alloy, FIB lift-out samples from material irradiated in bulk to 1 and 10 dpa were re-irradiated in-situ in their thin-foil geometry with 1 MeV Kr2+ ions at 440 °C at the Intermediate Voltage Electron Microscope. It was observed that the cavities formed during bulk irradiation shrank under thin-foil irradiation in-situ while dislocation loops were observed to grow and incorporate into the dislocation network. The thin-foil geometry used for in-situ irradiation is believed to cause the cavities to shrink.
UKF-based Sensor Fault Diagnosis of PMSM Drives in Electric Vehicles
 The reliability of permanent magnet synchronous machine (PMSM) is very important for new energy vehicle, especially for pure electric vehicle which requires a precise operation to achieve high performance. This paper proposes a novel diagnosis scheme that uses three unscented Kalman Filters (UKFs) to detect and isolate current sensor and position sensor faults of PMSM drive system. The PMSM drive model is built in Matlab/Simulink. In the process of fault diagnosis, three UKFs are used in the fault diagnosis process, and each UKF receives different sensor information. All faults can be efficiently isolated by using these UKFs as different faults affect each UKF differently. From the results we got, it is conclude that the proposed methodology could properly handle the nonlinear properties with good robustness and high diagnosis accuracy.
Simulation-driven machine learning: Bearing fault classification
 Increasing the accuracy of mechanical fault detection has the potential to improve system safety and economic performance by minimizing scheduled maintenance and the probability of unexpected system failure. Advances in computational performance have enabled the application of machine learning algorithms across numerous applications including condition monitoring and failure detection. Past applications of machine learning to physical failure have relied explicitly on historical data, which limits the feasibility of this approach to in-service components with extended service histories. Furthermore, recorded failure data is often only valid for the specific circumstances and components for which it was collected. This work directly addresses these challenges for roller bearings with race faults by generating training data using information gained from high resolution simulations of roller bearing dynamics, which is used to train machine learning algorithms that are then validated against four experimental datasets. Several different machine learning methodologies are compared starting from well-established statistical feature-based methods to convolutional neural networks, and a novel application of dynamic time warping (DTW) to bearing fault classification is proposed as a robust, parameter free method for race fault detection.
Transmission Line Power Transfer Capability Improvement, Case Study
 This paper investigates different approaches to improve the power transfer capability (PTC) of transmission lines. Study was performed on the Eastern Gold Fields (EGF) area of the Western Power network in Western Australia where power transfer to this area is currently enhanced using four saturable reactor types static var Compensators (SR SVCs) installed in this region. These SR SVCs have reached to the end of operational life and they are scheduled for replacement by different dynamic reactive power devices such as Static Synchronous Compensators (STATCOMs) or Thyristor Controlled SVCs (TSVCs). Another proposed option to enhance the PTC to this area is by upgrading the 220 kV transmission line to 275 kV transmission line and / or using series capacitor compensation. This paper introduces technical and economical study for the aforementioned options and suggests a reliable and cost effective approach to improve the PTC to EGF area.
Ground/sea return with electrode systems for HVDC transmission
 HVDC transmission is booming worldwide. Despite electrode systems are one of the frontiers of DC technology, being a key component of HVDC links, in the experience of the Authors many aspects of their manufacturing, design and operations are less known among the HVDC community with respect to other components, like cables and converters. Aiming at filling this gap, this paper is a survey on ground/sea return with electrode systems for HVDC links, particularly focused on the preliminary design. The configurations of HVDC systems (monopolar, homopolar, bipolar) are recalled first, highlighting the advantages of ground/sea return. Then, ground electrodes are treated, illustrating the basic parameters and geometrical arrangements for the design of ground electrodes. Later, shore and sea electrodes are illustrated. Considerations relevant to ground current close the paper.
Power distribution system fault cause analysis by using association rule mining
 In recent years, with the increasing requirements on power distribution utilities to ensure system reliability and to improve customers and regulators satisfaction, utilities seek to find practical solutions that enable them to restrict specific faults or to better manage their responses to unavoidable power outages. For achieving either, it is crucial to acquire a profound understanding of different faults by exploring their underlying causes and identifying key variables related to those causes. Currently, statistical models as well as advanced data analytics techniques are common tools to gain such understanding. Although basic statistical analysis provides a general knowledge of the primary causes of faults; nevertheless, it falls short of describing nuanced conditions that lead to a fault. On the other hand, applying sophisticated algorithms can produce deeper insight into the main causes; however, it would be computationally burdensome and might require a tremendous amount of running time. In order to overcome these problems, this paper proposes a novel approach for fault cause analysis by using association rule mining. The primary goals are to characterize faults according to their underlying causes and to identify important variables that strongly impact fault frequency. This paper proposes a step-by-step procedure, which deals with data preparation, practical issues associated with fault data sets, and implementation of association rule mining. The procedure is followed by a comprehensive case study to demonstrate how the proposed approach can be used to mine for causal structures and identify frequent patterns for vegetation, animal, equipment failure, public accident, and lightning-related faults.
Spatial arrangement of faults and opening-mode fractures
 Spatial arrangement is a fundamental characteristic of fracture arrays. The pattern of fault and opening-mode fracture positions in space defines structural heterogeneity and anisotropy in a rock volume, governs how faults and fractures affect fluid flow, and impacts our understanding of the initiation, propagation and interactions during the formation of fracture patterns. This special issue highlights recent progress with respect to characterizing and understanding the spatial arrangements of fault and fracture patterns, providing examples over a wide range of scales and structural settings. Five papers describe new methods and improvements of existing techniques to quantify spatial arrangement. One study unravels the time evolution of opening-mode fracture spatial arrangement, which are data needed to compare natural patterns with progressive fracture growth in kinematic and mechanical models. Three papers investigate the role of evolving diagenesis in localizing fractures by mechanical stratigraphy and nine discuss opening-mode fracture spatial arrangement. Two papers show the relevance of complex cluster patterns to unconventional reservoirs through examples of fractures in tight gas sandstone horizontal wells, and a study of fracture arrangement in shale. Four papers demonstrate the roles of folds in fracture localization and the development spatial patterns. One paper models along-fault friction and fluid pressure and their effects on fault-related fracture arrangement. Contributions address deformation band patterns in carbonate rocks and fault size and arrangement above a detachment fault. Three papers describe fault and fracture arrangements in basement terrains, and three document fracture patterns in shale. This collection of papers points toward improvement in field methods, continuing improvements in computer-based data analysis and creation of synthetic fracture patterns, and opportunities for further understanding fault and fracture attributes in the subsurface through coupled spatial, size, and pattern analysis.
Transmission lines detection technology
 With the development of high-voltage and large-capacity transmission line technology, safe and reliable operation of the transmission line is essential. In view of China’s vast area and varied geographical environment along transmission lines, which are affected by the frequently severe weather and heavy air pollution, etc., it is necessary to detect the device status of the transmission line. Detection equipment and technology should be applied to transmission lines as appropriate to individual lines. State-of-the-art online detection technology and maintenance technology, using infrared and ultraviolet imaging remote sensing, can ensure the safe operation of the line by precisely detecting all kinds of defects of transmission line insulators, conductors, and hardware devices and carrying out line maintenance in good time.
A fault-tolerant ONVIF protocol extension for seamless surveillance video stream recording
 ONVIF (Open Network Video Interface Forum) is an importance industrial standard for the video surveillance field. There are over 8000 ONVIF-compliant IP cameras (i.e., ONVIF NVT) and network video recorders (i.e., ONVIF NVS) from various vendors listed on the ONVIF official website. However, because the current ONVIF specifications do not support any fault-tolerant functions to handle NVS failure, in this paper we propose a fault-tolerant solution for ONVIF NVS and try to minimize the modifications to the current ONVIF specifications in the proposed design. Besides, we also propose an extension to the ONVIF NVT for preventing the loss of captured NVT video data during the failover procedure triggered by NVS failure. Finally, we evaluate the following four performance metrics of the proposed fault-tolerant ONVIF surveillance system: the maximal video local cache time supported by an NVT, the response time for accessing an ONVIF web service, the interrupt duration of video recording due to NVS failure, and the live video black out time observed by a video management system. Since the experimental results are all within the acceptable range for a real fault-tolerant video surveillance system in the real world, the experiences provided by this paper is a good reference for improving the fault-tolerant capabilities of the ONVIF video surveillance systems.
A hybrid method for arcing faults detection in large distribution networks
 This paper presents a reliable protection scheme for high impedance fault (HIF) detection in large and complex electrical distribution networks. The proposed algorithm uses dynamic features extracted by stationary wavelet transform and feeds them to a support vector machine-based decision making system. HIF occurrence is detected according to the normalized changes of the features extracted from three post-disturbance data windows. To provide more security, the output of the main fault classifier is compared with the outputs of three other classifiers in a voting system for final decision making. The results of simulations of a real distribution system demonstrate that the proposed scheme is able to detect a wide range of arcing faults, from a few amperes to hundreds of amperes, with high level of security against non-HIF phenomena.
On the fault-tolerant performance for a class of robust image steganography
 The mainstream adaptive steganography algorithms often cannot transmit secret messages correctly when stego images suffer from JPEG compression. In this respect, researchers proposed a series of robust adaptive steganography methods based on the framework of “Compression-resistant Domain Constructing + RS-STC Codes” in previous studies. However, these methods leave behind the fault tolerance analysis, resulting in potential mistakes in extracted messages, which brings uncertainty to practical application. To solve this problem, an error model based on burst errors and STCs decoding damage is given in this manuscript, utilizing the burst error model based on Poisson distribution. Then the model is verified using the hypothesis test problem judged by the χ2 test method. Based on the proposed model, the error conditions of received stego sequence are depicted, and the fault-tolerant performance of the robust steganography based on “Compression-resistant Domain Constructing + RS-STC Codes” is deduced, that is, the probability lower bound for RS-STCs decoding to correctly extract embedded messages. Experiments demonstrate that the practical fault-tolerant results of previous robust steganography methods consist with the theoretical derivation results, which provides a theory support for coding parameter selection and message extraction integrity to the robust steganography based on “Compression-resistant Domain Constructing + RS-STC Codes”.
Sparsity guided empirical wavelet transform for fault diagnosis of rolling element bearings
 Rolling element bearings are widely used in various industrial machines, such as electric motors, generators, pumps, gearboxes, railway axles, turbines, and helicopter transmissions. Fault diagnosis of rolling element bearings is beneficial to preventing any unexpected accident and reducing economic loss. In the past years, many bearing fault detection methods have been developed. Recently, a new adaptive signal processing method called empirical wavelet transform attracts much attention from readers and engineers and its applications to bearing fault diagnosis have been reported. The main problem of empirical wavelet transform is that Fourier segments required in empirical wavelet transform are strongly dependent on the local maxima of the amplitudes of the Fourier spectrum of a signal, which connotes that Fourier segments are not always reliable and effective if the Fourier spectrum of the signal is complicated and overwhelmed by heavy noises and other strong vibration components. In this paper, sparsity guided empirical wavelet transform is proposed to automatically establish Fourier segments required in empirical wavelet transform for fault diagnosis of rolling element bearings. Industrial bearing fault signals caused by single and multiple railway axle bearing defects are used to verify the effectiveness of the proposed sparsity guided empirical wavelet transform. Results show that the proposed method can automatically discover Fourier segments required in empirical wavelet transform and reveal single and multiple railway axle bearing defects. Besides, some comparisons with three popular signal processing methods including ensemble empirical mode decomposition, the fast kurtogram and the fast spectral correlation are conducted to highlight the superiority of the proposed method.
A study on the on-line measurement of transmission line impedances for improved relaying protection
 This paper proposed an on-line measurement of transmission line impedance in order to improve the accuracy of distance relays and analysis of power system. Distance relays are generally set by the estimated impedance of the protected lines, which involves a certain amount of error in itself. Especially, the zero sequence impedance has more erroneous terms associated with mutual effects in parallel line as well as uncertainty of ground return path. The proposed method is measuring impedance either during normal operation or during faults, and can be applied on-line correction of the setting value of distance relays. This on-line measured positive impedance may be used to monitor the transmission line condition during operation and more accurate impedance data may also improve performance of power system analysis. For verification of the proposed method, several simulations have been executed and shown satisfactory results.
Vibration signal models for fault diagnosis of planet bearings
 Rolling element bearings are key components of planetary gearboxes. Among them, the motion of planet bearings is very complex, encompassing spinning and revolution. Therefore, planet bearing vibrations are highly intricate and their fault characteristics are completely different from those of fixed-axis case, making planet bearing fault diagnosis a difficult topic. In order to address this issue, we derive the explicit equations for calculating the characteristic frequency of outer race, rolling element and inner race fault, considering the complex motion of planet bearings. We also develop the planet bearing vibration signal model for each fault case, considering the modulation effects of load zone passing, time-varying angle between the gear pair mesh and fault induced impact force, as well as the time-varying vibration transfer path. Based on the developed signal models, we derive the explicit equations of Fourier spectrum in each fault case, and summarize the vibration spectral characteristics respectively. The theoretical derivations are illustrated by numerical simulation, and further validated experimentally and all the three fault cases (i.e. outer race, rolling element and inner race localized fault) are diagnosed.
Transmission line vulnerability to lightning over areas of dense rainforests and large rivers in the Amazon region
 The vulnerability under lightning conditions of stretches of the 1500 km long electrical transmission line Tucurui–Oriximina–Manaus over dense Amazon forest canopy and river crossings is evaluated using a leader progression model (LPM) called ModSalto. We find vulnerability windows (low protection or unsafe) in all crossing stretches that use high towers to comply with environmental restrictions. The values of lightning flashover rates (LFR) reach 0.8277 flashover/year or an equivalent period of 14.49 months for stretches of river crossings, and 0.3403 flashover/year or an equivalent period of 35.26 months for stretches of forest canopy crossing. These numbers are above the computed equivalent ANEEL bidding figure of 0.15 flashover/year for that TL. This methodology uses a map of yearly lightning frequency produced with data from STARNET and SIPAM LLS and the level of lightning protection was evaluated with the electro-geometric model (EGM).
Texture-directed twin formation propensity in Al with high stacking fault energy
 Twin boundaries can enhance the strength and preserve the ductility of a variety of metallic materials with face centered cubic structures. However, twin boundaries are rare in aluminum due to its high stacking fault energy. There are limited successes for the formation of nanotwins in Al. Here, we show that twin morphology and twin density in Al can be altered by tailoring the textures of films. Transmission Kikuchi diffraction and transmission electron microscopy studies on (111), (110) and (112) textured Al films indicate that Al (112) film has the highest twin density. Two design criteria are identified for the introduction of a high density of growth twins into Al.
An spatiotemporal information system based wide-area protection fault identification scheme
 The paper presents a synchronized phasor measurement based fast and accurate comprehensive wide area back-up protection scheme for transmission lines. The proposed scheme uses Koopman Mode Analysis (KMA) technique on fault current data obtained from Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) for fault identification in back-up protection. The principal advantage of Koopman operator is that it is based on spatiotemporal information system (STIS). In real world applications, often time and space exists together and hence, dealing with spatial aspect without considering temporal aspect is of limited use. The wide area back-up protection scheme is developed using STIS for fault identification and classification including wide variations in operating conditions of the power network. The New England 39 bus system is used as the test system which is developed on Dig-Silent power factory commercial software (PF4C) platform for evaluating the performance of proposed technique. Further, the efficacy of the proposed scheme is also tested for stressed conditions such as symmetrical fault during power swing and load encroachment and found to work effectively.
Combinatorial Properties of Root-fault Hypertrees
 Combinatorial properties have become more and more important recently in the study of reliability, fault tolerance, randomized routing, and transmission delay in interconnection networks. In this paper, we prove that hypertrees are planar. We also discuss certain combinatorial properties of root-fault hypertrees.
Application of wavelet multiresolution analysis for identification and classification of faults on transmission lines
 This paper presents a new method for identification and classification of faults based on wavelet multiresolution analysis (MRA). Daubechies eight (D-8) wavelet transforms of the three phase currents on a transmission line fed from both ends are used. The peak absolute value, the mean of the peak absolute values and summation of the 3rd level output of MRA detail signals of current in each phase extracted from the original signals are used as the criterion for the analysis. The effects of fault distance, fault inception angle and fault impedance are also examined. Extensive simulations are carried out to generate time domain input signal using EMTP (Microtran) on a 230 kV, 200 km long line fed from both ends and simulation results show that the proposed method is a simple, effective and robust method suitable for high impedance faults also.
Torsional vibration signal analysis as a diagnostic tool for planetary gear fault detection
 This paper aims to investigate the effectiveness of using the torsional vibration signal as a diagnostic tool for planetary gearbox faults detection. The traditional approach for condition monitoring of the planetary gear uses a stationary transducer mounted on the ring gear casing to measure all the vibration data when the planet gears pass by with the rotation of the carrier arm. However, the time variant vibration transfer paths between the stationary transducer and the rotating planet gear modulate the resultant vibration spectra and make it complex. Torsional vibration signals are theoretically free from this modulation effect and therefore, it is expected to be much easier and more effective to diagnose planetary gear faults using the fault diagnostic information extracted from the torsional vibration. In this paper, a 20 degree of freedom planetary gear lumped-parameter model was developed to obtain the gear dynamic response. In the model, the gear mesh stiffness variations are the main internal vibration generation mechanism and the finite element models were developed for calculation of the sun-planet and ring-planet gear mesh stiffnesses. Gear faults on different components were created in the finite element models to calculate the resultant gear mesh stiffnesses, which were incorporated into the planetary gear model later on to obtain the faulted vibration signal. Some advanced signal processing techniques were utilized to analyses the fault diagnostic results from the torsional vibration. It was found that the planetary gear torsional vibration not only successfully detected the gear fault, but also had the potential to indicate the location of the gear fault. As a result, the planetary gear torsional vibration can be considered an effective alternative approach for planetary gear condition monitoring.
Transmission expansion in Argentina 2: The Fourth Line revisited
 In 1992, Argentina introduced the Public Contest method, which required transmission users to propose, vote and pay for major expansions of the electricity transmission system. Economists, consultants, the regulator and others held the application of this method to be unsuccessful, mainly on the ground that “for many years” it delayed investment in a “much needed” Fourth Line to Buenos Aires. The commentators blamed externalities, free-rider problems, the Area of Influence method used to define voting rights, and transactions costs. This paper re-examines the history and economics of the Fourth Line. The delay to the Fourth Line was short (a year and a half rather than many years) and enabled a significant reduction in construction costs. Externalities, free-riding, the Area of Influence method and transactions costs were not problematic. The Fourth Line was initially rejected because it was unprofitable to key beneficiaries. Far from being much needed, the Fourth Line was not economic because the congestion it avoided was worth less than the cost of building it. It had become more economic to transport gas to generate electricity near Buenos Aires than to transmit electricity over long distances. The location of subsequent power stations reflected this. Even though the presence of a subsidy meant that the Public Contest method did not prevent the building of the Fourth Line, it nonetheless forced a much-needed reappraisal of traditional transmission investment policy.
An enhanced tool for fault analysis in multiphase electrical systems
 This paper describes a new methodology for the fault analysis of an n-conductor electrical system, in which the phase imbalances, neutral cables, groundings, and other inherent characteristics of distribution systems are considered. The proposed methodology, which is based on the current-injection method, allows faults to be represented in a simple way and may be used to analyze several fault types, including internal, series, and simultaneous faults. The results of several cases are presented to show the efficiency of the proposed method.
Fault mirrors along carbonate faults: Formation and destruction during shear experiments
 Glossy, light reflective surfaces are commonly exposed in carbonate fault-zones. It was suggested that such surfaces, recently termed Fault Mirrors (FMs), form during seismic slip. Ultramicroscopic analyses indicate that FMs are highly smooth and composed of a cohesive thin layer of nano-size grains. We explore here mechanisms of formation and destruction of FMs by shear experiments that were conducted on three types of limestone which were sheared at wide range of slip-velocities of v=0.001–0.63m/s, and normal stress up to 1.57 MPa. The experiments showed that FMs started to develop as local patches when the slip velocity exceeded a critical value of 0.07 m/s. The area coverage by FM patches increases systematically with increasing velocity, reaching in a few cases ∼100% coverage. The measured quasi-steady-state friction coefficient, μss, was inversely correlated with the FM coverage: μss∼0.8 for no-FM, at v<0.07m/s, and μss∼0.4 for 50% FM coverage at v∼0.6m/s. Further, in a series of slip-velocity alternation between low and high values, the FMs which formed at a high-velocity stage were destroyed during a subsequent low-velocity stage. Our analyses of the experimental thermal conditions and ultramicroscopy imaging of the FMs suggest that the FMs form by sintering of gouge nanograins during shear. We propose that formation/destruction of FMs in high/low slip-velocity reflects a competition between brittle and ductile processes: FMs form in a ductile mode, and are destroyed by brittle wear. Shear heating during high velocity leads to ductile deformation and sintering so that FM construction rate exceeds brittle FM destruction rate. Based on our results, we suggest that, at least for shallow faults, the presence of extensive FM coverage along natural carbonate faults indicates that the fault segment slipped at seismic velocities and experienced dynamic weakening.
PHASOR MEASUREMENT UNIT BASED WIDE AREA BACKUP PROTECTION SCHEME FOR POWER TRANSMISSION LINES
 Protective relays, pivotal devices that can quickly identify and isolate fault area in power systems, is of great importance for ensuring power system security and reliability. This paper proposes a wide area backup protection scheme for identifying the faulted zone in power transmission lines. This scheme uses the data of wide area measurement systems (WAMS) with constrained number of phasor measurements which are synchronized by nature. First, the number of PMUs required for the scheme is optimized and then, the transmission network is divided into backup protection zones (BPZs) based on the PMU placement and network topology. Whenever the fault arises in a transmission network, the sum of zero and/or positive sequence currents entering the faulted BPZ highly increases, and hence, the faulted BPZ can be determined. This scheme determines the faulted zone quickly and precisely and thereby, reducing the effect of the various faults on the power grid. The proposed method is tested and simulated using a standard WSCC 9-bus system using MATLAB/Simulink.
Fault diagnostics in smart micro-grids: A survey
 Due to rising awareness on environmental protection and for maintenance of clean habitable communities, current and next generation micro-grids are desired to have significant penetration of renewable and clean energy sources. However, a critical issue is the growth of faults in various components of micro-grids, which comprise the underlying energy generation and distribution infrastructure. Moreover, faults can manifest through different failure modes in the same component. If timely diagnostics and maintenance actions are not undertaken, then these faults can cause instabilities, inefficient power generation, and other losses. Therefore, it is important not only to understand the various failure modes, and their root causes and effects, but also to develop real-time automated diagnostics tools that can capture the early signatures of fault evolution for mitigating actions. In this respect, this paper presents a review of different failure modes occurring in various micro-grid components including both clean and conventional energy generation systems. Subsequently, the paper also provides a review on the state-of-the-art of various fault diagnosis approaches available in technical literature. Since multiple approaches can be implemented utilizing the model-based or data-driven methods given the system monitoring and communication infrastructures, the paper has presented the material in a systematic manner for easy understanding. The information presented in this paper will benefit not only the diagnostic engineers but also the control engineers who aim to develop control methodologies for fault-tolerance, mitigation, and equipment life extension based on the tools of early diagnostics.
Distributed Diagnosis of Actuator and Sensor Faults in HVAC Systems*
 This paper presents a model-based methodology for diagnosing actuator and sensor faults affecting the temperature dynamics of a multi-zone heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HVAC) system. By considering the temperature dynamics of the HVAC system as a network of interconnected subsystems, a distributed fault diagnosis architecture is proposed. For every subsystem, we design a monitoring agent that combines local and transmitted information from its neighboring agents in order to provide a decision on the type, number and location of the faults. The diagnosis process of each agent is realized in three steps. Firstly, the agent performs fault detection using a distributed nonlinear estimator. After the detection, the local fault identification is activated to infer the type of the fault using two distributed adaptive estimation schemes and a combinatorial decision logic. In order to distinguish between multiple local faults and propagated sensor faults, a distributed fault isolation is applied using the decisions of the neighboring agents. Simulation results of a 5-zone HVAC system are used to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed methodology.
Fault Diagnosis of Pneumatic Systems: Application of a Systematic Model-Based Methodology
 Inclusion of real system data and a systematic model-based approach provides new opportunities in the field of fault diagnosis. The included work was conducted during the first phase of a larger multi-phase project that has the goal of developing methods for detection and diagnosis of faults in large, complex industrial fluid systems. This paper focuses on the application of a systematic model-based fault detection and isolation (FDI) methodology to a small-scale pneumatic test bench for proof of concept. FDI schemes were physically implemented on the test bench, leading to successful detection and isolation of injected faults using developed residuals.
Real-time fault tolerant full adder design for critical applications
 In the complex computing system, processing units are dealing with devices of smaller size, which are sensitive to the transient faults. A transient fault occurs in a circuit caused by the electromagnetic noises, cosmic rays, crosstalk and power supply noise. It is very difficult to detect these faults during offline testing. Hence an area efficient fault tolerant full adder for testing and repairing of transient and permanent faults occurred in single and multi-net is proposed. Additionally, the proposed architecture can also detect and repair permanent faults. This design incurs much lower hardware overheads relative to the traditional hardware architecture. In addition to this, proposed design also provides higher error detection and correction efficiency when compared to the existing designs.
Real time evaluation of DWT-based high impedance fault detection in EHV transmission
 It is possible to capture the required travelling wave information contained in fault transients using wavelet transform. This paper presents practical real time testing for the high impedance fault (HIF) detection algorithm based on real time accidents data. The proposed scheme is implemented for HIF detection in extra high voltage transmission lines. The classifier is based on an algorithm that uses recursive method to sum the absolute values of the high frequency signal generated over one cycle and shifting one sample. Characteristics of this scheme are analyzed by extensive real time studies that clearly reveal that this technique can accurately detect HIFs in the EHV transmission lines within only half a cycle from the instant of fault occurrence. The reliability of this scheme is not affected by different fault conditions such as fault distance and fault inception angle.
Shock-induced stacking fault pyramids in Ni/Al multilayers
 The formations of stacking fault tetrahedra in {111}fcc/{111}fcc multilayers have been studied extensively, but the researches related to {001}fcc/{001}fcc interfaces can rarely be found in the literature. Using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, the shock-induced dislocation structure in Ni/Al multilayers was studied in this article, the stacking fault pyramids (SFPs) initiated from Ni/Al interface was firstly observed, and the corresponding mechanism was explored. It was shown that the Shockley partial dislocations dissociated from the rectangular misfit dislocations along Ni/Al interface are first emitted into the Al interlayer and subsequently intersect with each other to form SFPs. With the propagation of the shock front in the multilayers, two adjacent SFPs interact with each other and form Lomer-Cottrell locks. The dislocation sheet composed of SFPs and Lomer-Cottrell locks can act as a barrier to dislocation transmission. The effect of shock piston velocity on the nucleation site of dislocation was also studied. It was shown that dislocations would originate from the interface at a low piston speed (<1.1 km/s), and appear at the shock front if the piston speed exceeds 1.2 km/s.
Vibration characteristic investigation on distribution transformer influenced by DC magnetic bias based on motion transmission model
 Transformer is an important equipment for power energy transmission. The vibration and noise of transformer have always been a serious issue of people concern. Transformer body vibration and noise are mainly caused by the global magnetization of limbs and yokes and magnetic forces of transformer core. However, the process of vibration transfer from core to body is a key factor for monitoring the transformer condition. In this paper, a transformer model for vibration transmission is presented based on motion transmission and it can be used to analyze the vibration relation between core and shell of transformer. Considering strain of silicon steel as the vibration source, the motion equations whichexpress the relations of transformer core and shell are derived. And then, the test system is built to analyze the vibrations of a 5 kVA three phase transformer. A 3D real model simulation used COMSOL finite element software is performed for analyzing the deformation characteristic of transformer. The locations of test points which reflect the vibration more efficiently are determined through the deformation simulation results. Lastly, the vibration signals of two directions have been measured considering DC magnetic bias or not. The experimental results reveal that vibration relations between core and shell are satisfied with the theoretical derivation. Therefore, the Vibration Transmission is significant and it can provide valid method for the DC magnetic bias analysis and core diagnosis of transformer.
High-speed transmission line relaying using artificial neural networks
 A novel feedforward neural network that indicates whether a fault is within or outside the protection zone (fault indicator) of a transmission line is presented. The same technique has been extended to locate the distance of the fault (fault locator). The proposed scheme utilizes the frequency spectrum of the voltages and currents to make a decision. Data obtained from the electromagnetic transient program for single-line-to-ground faults and three-phase faults have been tested and the results are found to be accurate. Using this neural network the relaying decision is obtained within a cycle after the fault inception. The performance of the trained neural network shows promise and has the potential for implementation in a digital relay for transmission line protection.
Bio-inspired fault tolerant network on chip
 The integration of heterogeneous processing elements (PEs) or nodes in the System on Chip (SoC) has made the communication structure very complex. The bus based system between these components is not able to handle the communication requirements and, this has led to the idea of Network on Chip (NoC). The NoC addresses the communication requirement of different nodes on SoC. The physical sizes of devices in NoC are scaled down, including routers, processing elements and interconnects, giving rise to faults, system delay, and latency issues. Fault tolerant routing algorithms are used to recover from temporary faults while redundant resources (wires, routers) are required to overcome the permanent faults. These routing algorithms, however, still suffer from congestion problems, low bandwidth, and throughput utilization as well as lacking adaptivity and robustness. In this work, novel biologically inspired techniques were proposed for NoC using combined best effort (BE) and guaranteed throughput (GT) services. Moreover, the bio-inspired algorithms are compared and analyzed with each other using BE, GT and combined BE-GT services. The bio-inspired mechanisms of “synaptogenesis” and “sprouting” have been adopted in the proposed NoC algorithms and architecture. These techniques were implemented using the BE and GT services. With the help of these two bio-inspired techniques, the NoC becomes robust, fault tolerant and is able to efficiently utilize the throughput and bandwidth. The bio-inspired algorithms improved the accepted traffic (flit/cycle/node) by 38.99% compared to different techniques in the literature. The bio-inspired algorithm also improved the bandwidth and throughput utilization by 71.04% and 72.42% respectively compared to the XY and Odd-Even fault tolerant routing algorithms. Moreover, the bio-inspired algorithm had less end-to-end latency and interflit arrival time by 196.44% and 88.10% respectively compared to the literature techniques of XY and Odd-Even.
Fine grain faults diagnosis of FPGA interconnect
 This paper proposes a new fine grain fault diagnosis method for the interconnect of an arbitrary design implemented in a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA). In the proposed method, interconnect faults detected at the primary output are back-tracked until the faulty nets are precisely located. This is carried out by programming the LUTs on the faulty path to be transparent and thus propagating the value of a specific net under test to the primary output for verification against the expected value of the net. After every back-tracking iteration, the fault location is narrowed down and thus the number of nets to be tested decreases significantly. Therefore, the upper bound of the number of configurations (NMAX) required to locate a faulty net, depends on the maximum combinational depth (DCOMB) of the circuit, and it is approximately equivalent to three times of DCOMB. The proposed method has the ability to locate multiple faults without any fault masking with fault coverage that includes all possible stuck-at, open and pair-wise bridging faults. The proposed method is validated on the ISCAS’89 benchmark circuits mapped on Xilinx Spartan 3E, Virtex-4 and Virtex-5 FPGAs and the results are presented. The simulation results show that applying the proposed method on circuits with less combinational depth reduces the required number of test configurations on average by 35% when compared with the latest method available in the literature.
Discrete wavelet transform optimal parameters estimation for arc fault detection in low-voltage residential power networks
 In this work, an in-depth analysis providing the optimal parameters estimation for discrete wavelet transform (DWT) applied to detection of series arc faults in the household AC power network is presented. The influence of three parameters was investigated: the choice of mother wavelet, level of decomposition and sampling frequency. The line current was used as input for all analyses. A performance criterion based on the energy computation of line currents with and without arc faults was defined and used to compare the influence of 550 combinations of these three parameters on the arc fault detection performances for different loads, including two household appliances. The study showed that the right choice of these three parameters greatly influences the arc fault detection performances. Moreover, for each tested load a frequency range providing maximal arc fault detection performances is identified. The study showed also that the choice of the mother wavelet is less critical than the two other parameters.
A novel fault diagnosis method for lithium-Ion battery packs of electric vehicles
 This paper focuses on fault detection based on interclass correlation coefficient (ICC) method for guaranteeing safe and reliable of electric vehicles (EVs). The proposed method calculates ICC values by capturing the off-trend voltage drop and the voltages are extracted from Service and Management Center of electric vehicles. The ICC value is employed to analyze battery fault by ICC principle. The ICC value not only has advanced fault resolution by amplifying the voltage difference, but also can prolong the fault memory by setting moving windows. Moreover, a loop joints the first and last voltages is designed to locate faults in battery pack. In addition, simulation and experiment are employed to validate and analyze the voltage faults. Based on the simulation verification, the appropriate size of moving windows is set to ensuring sensitivity of fault detection method. The experiment results indicate the method can appropriately detect fault signals for EVs.
Formation and growth of stacking fault tetrahedra in Ni via vacancy aggregation mechanism
 Using molecular dynamics simulations, the formation and growth of stacking fault tetrahedra (SFT) are captured by vacancy cluster diffusion and aggregation mechanisms in Ni. The vacancy-tetrahedron acts as a nucleation point for SFT formation. Simulations show that perfect SFT can grow to the next size perfect SFT via a vacancy aggregation mechanism. The stopping and range of ions in matter (SRIM) calculations and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observations reveal that SFT can form farther away from the initial cascade-event locations, indicating the operation of diffusion-based vacancy-aggregation mechanism.
Improvement of Protection Coordination for a Distribution System Connected to a Microgrid using Unidirectional Fault Current Limiter
 The presence of distributed generation (DG) units in distribution systems increases the fault current level, which disrupts the existing coordination time interval of the protective overcurrent relays. One of the ways for decreasing DG effects on the coordination of protective devices is re-coordination of the relays by installing unidirectional fault current limiter (UFCL) between the main grid (upstream network) and the microgrid (downstream network). The UFCL does not limit fault current contribution of the upstream network when fault occurs in downstream but limits fault current contribution of the downstream network when fault occurs in the upstream. Moreover, it preserves the coordination between all of the relays. Several case studies are carried out for illustrating the performance of the UFCL in maintaining the relay coordination.
Three-dimensional analysis of a faulted CO2 reservoir using an Eshelby-Mori-Tanaka approach to rock elastic properties and fault permeability
 This work develops a three-dimensional (3D) multiscale model to analyze a complex carbon dioxide (CO2) faulted reservoir that includes some key geologic features of the San Andreas and nearby faults southwest of the Kimberlina site. The model uses the STOMP-CO2 code for flow modeling that is coupled to the ABAQUS® finite element package for geomechanical analysis. A 3D ABAQUS® finite element model is developed that contains a large number of 3D solid elements with two nearly parallel faults whose damage zones and cores are discretized using the same continuum elements. Five zones with different mineral compositions are considered: shale, sandstone, fault damaged sandstone, fault damaged shale, and fault core. Rocks' elastic properties that govern their poroelastic behavior are modeled by an Eshelby–Mori–Tanaka approach (EMTA), which can account for up to 15 mineral phases. The permeability of fault damage zones affected by crack density and orientations is also predicted by an EMTA formulation. A STOMP-CO2 grid that exactly maps the ABAQUS® finite element model is built for coupled hydro-mechanical analyses. Simulations of the reservoir assuming three different crack pattern situations (including crack volume fraction and orientation) for the fault damage zones are performed to predict the potential leakage of CO2 due to cracks that enhance the permeability of the fault damage zones. The results illustrate the important effect of the crack orientation on fault permeability that can lead to substantial leakage along the fault attained by the expansion of the CO2 plume. Potential hydraulic fracture and tendency for the faults to slip are also examined and discussed in terms of stress distributions and geomechanical properties.
A novel algorithm for fault classification in transmission lines using a combined adaptive network and fuzzy inference system
 Accurate detection and classification of faults on transmission lines is vitally important. In this respect, many different types of faults occur, inter alia low impedance faults (LIF) and high impedance faults (HIF). The latter in particular pose difficulties for the commonly employed conventional overcurrent and distance relays, and if not detected, can cause damage to expensive equipment, threaten life and cause fire hazards. Although HIFs are far less common than LIFs, it is imperative that any protection device should be able to satisfactorily deal with both HIFs and LIFs. Because of the randomness and asymmetric characteristics of HIFs, the modelling of HIF is difficult and many papers relating to various HIF models have been published. In this paper, the model of HIFs in transmission lines is accomplished using the characteristics of a ZnO arrester, which is then implemented within the overall transmission system model based on the electromagnetic transients programme. This paper proposes an algorithm for fault detection and classification for both LIFs and HIFs using Adaptive Network-based Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS). The inputs into ANFIS are current signals only based on Root-Mean-Square values of three-phase currents and zero sequence current. The performance of the proposed algorithm is tested on a typical 154 kV Korean transmission line system under various fault conditions. Test results show that the ANFIS can detect and classify faults including (LIFs and HIFs) accurately within half a cycle.
A novel index for the robustness comparison of classifiers in fault diagnosis
 The design of robust data-based fault diagnostic systems can be formulated in terms of classification tasks. A diagnostic classifier designed to effectively minimize the false and missing alarm rates resulting from noise, uncertainty, and unknown disturbances while maintaining a relatively high performance can be defined as robust. This paper presents a novel criterion to compare off-line the robustness of classifiers. The proposed index allows to complement the estimated misclassification rate and to quantify the quality of any data-based diagnostic system more rigorously. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed index, both Artificial Neural Networks and Support Vector Machines are used as diagnostic classifiers for the Continuous Stirred-Tank Reactor benchmark.
Study of optimal combination between SFCL location and PSS type to improve power system transient stability
 In this paper, authors present a method to select the optimal combination between the type of the power system stabilizer (PSS) and the location of a Superconducting Fault Current Limiter (SFCL) in an Electrical Power Grid (EPG) to improve the transient stability in case of fault. The angular separation between generators rotors when different types of short-circuit appears in the EPG is used as the main criterion of the proposed method to select this optimal combination. To complete the study, the optimal resistive value of the SFCL is evaluated to improve the global stability of the EPG. Results show that an optimal combination between the type of PSS, the location of SFCL in the EPG and the resistive value of SFCL exists in order to obtain the smallest variation of the angular separation of generators rotors, i.e. the best stability of the power system in case of fault.
Fault Diagnosis Based Approach to Protecting DC Microgrid Using Machine Learning Technique
 The electronic equipment used in DC microgrids is in essential need of more secure protection against short circuit faults. Due to the high current at the time of fault occurrence, the whole system might be de-energized which would have a severely negative impact on the entire system. An effective method to detect, isolate, and protect the DC microgrid system against the effects of short circuit faults is extremely important. This research proposes a highly effective new method to protect the DC microgrid system using an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) that will detect and isolate the fault before it affects other parts of the system. It would, therefore, be more dependable for DC microgrid protection. This protection network is distributed all along the DC microgrid system protecting the entire microgrid network and is connected to the other protective devices in the system.
Volcanic avalanche fault zone with pseudotachylite and gouge in French Massif Central
 Structures and textures with sedimentological variations at different scales of the lithofacies assemblage help us to constrain the basal kinematic transition from non-depositional to depositional conditions during volcanic avalanche emplacement. In the well-exposed impact-sheared contact along volcanic avalanche fault zone in the French Massif Central, we observe how the granular textures of the pseudotachylite and fault gouge have recorded the propagation of shock wave with granular oscillatory stress. Sequential events of basal aggradation along avalanche fault zone have been established related to fractal D-values, temperature pressure regime and oscillatory stress during slow wave velocity. A typical lithofacies assemblage with a reverse grading shows the pseudotachylite and fault gouge. A cataclastic gradient is characterised by the fractal D-values from 2.7 in jigsaw breccias with pseudotachylite partial melt, to 2.6 in the polymodal gouge. Shock, brecciation and comminution produce cataclastic shear bands in the pseudotachylite and quartz microstructures along the basal contact of the volcanic debris-avalanche deposit. Gouge microstructures show granular segregation, cataclasis with antithetic rotational Riedel shear, and an arching effect between the Riedel shear bands. X-ray microtomography provided 3D microfabrics along the clastic vein in the sandy-gouge. From the available statistical dataset, a few equations have been developed implicating the same cataclastic origin with a co-genetic evolution of lithofacies. An impact wave during primary shear propagation may contribute to produce hydroclastic matrix, pseudotachylite partial melt and proximal gouge thixotropy with v ~ 50m/s and a T < 654 °C. The interseismic period with oscillatory stress is related to crushed clasts and basaltic melt around ~ 800 °C, Riedel shear bands with granular segregation along the fault gouge. The secondary shock by matrix-rich avalanche (ΔP = 10GPa, T ≥ 1000–1500 °C) contributes to quartz microstructures along the avalanche basal contact and quartz spheroids in microscopic cataclastic shear bands. Decompression around 654–800 °C is related to tertiary sub-vertical oscillations with a backward moving shock and antithetic rotational fault megablock. Semi-quantitative analyses of seismogenic fault basement contribute to establish the localised conditions related to sequential aggradation along volcanic avalanche fault zone.
Condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of motor bearings using undersampled vibration signals from a wireless sensor network
 Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) which consist of miscellaneous sensors are used frequently in monitoring vital equipment. Benefiting from the development of data mining technologies, the massive data generated by sensors facilitate condition monitoring and fault diagnosis. However, too much data increase storage space, energy consumption, and computing resource, which can be considered fatal weaknesses for a WSN with limited resources. This study investigates a new method for motor bearings condition monitoring and fault diagnosis using the undersampled vibration signals acquired from a WSN. The proposed method, which is a fusion of the kurtogram, analog domain bandpass filtering, bandpass sampling, and demodulated resonance technique, can reduce the sampled data length while retaining the monitoring and diagnosis performance. A WSN prototype was designed, and simulations and experiments were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method. Experimental results indicated that the sampled data length and transmission time of the proposed method result in a decrease of over 80% in comparison with that of the traditional method. Therefore, the proposed method indicates potential applications on condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of motor bearings installed in remote areas, such as wind farms and offshore platforms.
Integrating angle-frequency domain synchronous averaging technique with feature extraction for gear fault diagnosis
 Gear fault diagnosis relies heavily on the scrutiny of vibration responses measured. In reality, gear vibration signals are noisy and dominated by meshing frequencies as well as their harmonics, which oftentimes overlay the fault related components. Moreover, many gear transmission systems, e.g., those in wind turbines, constantly operate under non-stationary conditions. To reduce the influences of non-synchronous components and noise, a fault signature enhancement method that is built upon angle-frequency domain synchronous averaging is developed in this paper. Instead of being averaged in the time domain, the signals are processed in the angle-frequency domain to solve the issue of phase shifts between signal segments due to uncertainties caused by clearances, input disturbances, and sampling errors, etc. The enhanced results are then analyzed through feature extraction algorithms to identify the most distinct features for fault classification and identification. Specifically, Kernel Principal Component Analysis (KPCA) targeting at nonlinearity, Multilinear Principal Component Analysis (MPCA) targeting at high dimensionality, and Locally Linear Embedding (LLE) targeting at local similarity among the enhanced data are employed and compared to yield insights. Numerical and experimental investigations are performed, and the results reveal the effectiveness of angle-frequency domain synchronous averaging in enabling feature extraction and classification.
Fault classification and location using HS-transform and radial basis function neural network
 A new approach for protection of transmission lines has been presented in this paper. The proposed technique consists of preprocessing the fault current and voltage signal sample using hyperbolic S-transform (HS-transform) to yield the change in energy and standard deviation at the appropriate window variation. After extracting these two features, a decision of fault or no-fault on any phase or multiple phases of the transmission line is detected, classified, and its distance to the relaying point found out using radial basis function neural network (RBFNN) with recursive least square (RLS) algorithm. The ground detection is done by a proposed indicator ‘index’. As HS-transform is very less sensitive to noise compared to wavelet transform, the proposed method provides very accurate and robust relaying scheme for distance protection.
Sinusoidal synthesis based adaptive tracking for rotating machinery fault detection
 This paper presents a novel Sinusoidal Synthesis Based Adaptive Tracking (SSBAT) technique for vibration-based rotating machinery fault detection. The proposed SSBAT algorithm is an adaptive time series technique that makes use of both frequency and time domain information of vibration signals. Such information is incorporated in a time varying dynamic model. Signal tracking is then realized by applying adaptive sinusoidal synthesis to the vibration signal. A modified Least-Squares (LS) method is adopted to estimate the model parameters. In addition to tracking, the proposed vibration synthesis model is mainly used as a linear time-varying predictor. The health condition of the rotating machine is monitored by checking the residual between the predicted and measured signal. The SSBAT method takes advantage of the sinusoidal nature of vibration signals and transfers the nonlinear problem into a linear adaptive problem in the time domain based on a state-space realization. It has low computation burden and does not need a priori knowledge of the machine under the no-fault condition which makes the algorithm ideal for on-line fault detection. The method is validated using both numerical simulation and practical application data. Meanwhile, the fault detection results are compared with the commonly adopted autoregressive (AR) and autoregressive Minimum Entropy Deconvolution (ARMED) method to verify the feasibility and performance of the SSBAT method.
Faulting processes in active faults – Evidences from TCDP and SAFOD drill core samples
 The microstructures, mineralogy and chemistry of representative samples collected from the cores of the San Andreas Fault drill hole (SAFOD) and the Taiwan Chelungpu-Fault Drilling project (TCDP) have been studied using optical microscopy, TEM, SEM, XRD and XRF analyses. SAFOD samples provide a transect across undeformed host rock, the fault damage zone and currently active deforming zones of the San Andreas Fault. TCDP samples are retrieved from the principal slip zone (PSZ) and from the surrounding damage zone of the Chelungpu Fault. Substantial differences exist in the clay mineralogy of SAFOD and TCDP fault gouge samples. Amorphous material has been observed in SAFOD as well as TCDP samples. In line with previous publications, we propose that melt, observed in TCDP black gouge samples, was produced by seismic slip (melt origin) whereas amorphous material in SAFOD samples was formed by comminution of grains (crush origin) rather than by melting. Dauphiné twins in quartz grains of SAFOD and TCDP samples may indicate high seismic stress. The differences in the crystallographic preferred orientation of calcite between SAFOD and TCDP samples are significant. Microstructures resulting from dissolution–precipitation processes were observed in both faults but are more frequently found in SAFOD samples than in TCDP fault rocks. As already described for many other fault zones clay-gouge fabrics are quite weak in SAFOD and TCDP samples. Clay-clast aggregates (CCAs), proposed to indicate frictional heating and thermal pressurization, occur in material taken from the PSZ of the Chelungpu Fault, as well as within and outside of the SAFOD deforming zones, indicating that these microstructures were formed over a wide range of slip rates.
Travelling wave pilot protection for LCC-HVDC transmission lines based on electronic transformers’ differential output characteristic
 Considering travelling wave’s bandwidth which varies from several kilohertz to hundreds of kilohertz, traditional current and voltage transformers cannot transfer whole bandwidth of travelling wave. However, electronic transformers, including Rogowski coil based electronic current transformer and capacitance divided electronic voltage transformer, have much wider bandwidth (up to 500 kHz) which could transfer almost whole bandwidth of travelling wave without distortion. Besides, secondary side’s output of electronic transformer is the differential signal of primary side. So, the integration circuit can be omitted when using differential travelling wave signal directly in protection principle. Traditional travelling protection for high voltage direct current (HVDC) lines is highly affected by grounding resistance. And the backup protection, such as current differential protection, has long operation time. So the paper proposes a novel travelling wave pilot protection based on the differential output signal of electronic transformers. Differential voltage and current travelling wave have axisymmetric relationship when the fault occurs at forward direction. Conversely, differential voltage and current travelling wave almost overlap when the fault occurs at reverse direction. Considering fault direction identification results of two ends, fault section can be determined. Besides, according to amplitude ratio of fault line and normal line, fault line can be selected correctly. The simulation results in PSCAD/EMTDC prove the correctness, sensitivity and reliability.
Fault mode analysis and detection for gear tooth crack during its propagating process based on dynamic simulation method
 Gearbox is one of the most important parts of rotating machinery, therefore, it is vital to carry out health monitoring for gearboxes. However, it is still an unsolved problem to disclose the impact of gear tooth crack fault on gear system vibration features during the crack propagating process, besides effective crack fault mode detection methods are lacked. In this study, an analytical model is proposed to calculate the time varying mesh stiffness of the meshing gear pair, and in this model the tooth bending stiffness, shear stiffness, axial compressive stiffness, Hertzian contact stiffness and fillet-foundation stiffness are taken into consideration. Afterwards, the vibration mechanism and effects of different levels of gear tooth crack on the gear system dynamics are investigated based on a 6 DOF dynamic model. Then, the crack fault vibration mode is studied, and a parametrical-Laplace wavelet method is presented to describe the crack fault mode. Furthermore, based on the maximum correlation coefficient (MCC) criterion, the optimized Laplace wavelet base is determined, which is then designed as a health indicator to detect the crack fault. The results show that the proposed method is effective in fault diagnosis of severe tooth crack as well as the early stage tooth crack.
ANN applications in fault locators
 Recent developments indicate that Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) may be appropriate for assisting dispatchers in operating electric power systems. The fault location algorithm being a key element in the digital relay for power transmission line protection, this paper discusses the potential applicability of ANN techniques for determination of fault location and fault resistance on EHV transmission lines with remote end in-feed. Most of the applications make use of the conventional Multi Layer Perceptron (MLP) model based on back propagation algorithm. However, this model suffers from the problem of slow learning rate. A modified ANN learning technique for fault location and fault resistance determination is presented in this paper. A reasonably small NN is built automatically without guessing the size, depth, and connectivity pattern of the NN in advance. Results of study on a 400 kV transmission line are presented for illustration purposes. Performance of the modified ANN is compared with the analytical algorithms and conventional MLP algorithm for different combinations of pre-fault loading condition, fault resistance and fault location. The results are found to be encouraging.
Wind adaptive modeling of transmission lines using minimum description length
 The transmission lines are moving objects, which positions are dynamically affected by wind-induced conductor motion while they are acquired by airborne laser scanners. This wind effect results in a noisy distribution of laser points, which often hinders accurate representation of transmission lines and thus, leads to various types of modeling errors. This paper presents a new method for complete 3D transmission line model reconstruction in the framework of inner and across span analysis. The highlighted fact is that the proposed method is capable of indirectly estimating noise scales, which corrupts the quality of laser observations affected by different wind speeds through a linear regression analysis. In the inner span analysis, individual transmission line models of each span are evaluated based on the Minimum Description Length theory and erroneous transmission line segments are subsequently replaced by precise transmission line models with wind-adaptive noise scale estimated. In the subsequent step of across span analysis, detecting the precise start and end positions of the transmission line models, known as the Point of Attachment, is the key issue for correcting partial modeling errors, as well as refining transmission line models. Finally, the geometric and topological completion of transmission line models are achieved over the entire network. A performance evaluation was conducted over 138.5 km long corridor data. In a modest wind condition, the results demonstrates that the proposed method can improve the accuracy of non-wind-adaptive initial models on an average of 48% success rate to produce complete transmission line models in the range between 85% and 99.5% with the positional accuracy of 9.55 cm transmission line models and 28 cm Point of Attachment in the root-mean-square error.
Numerical modeling of normal fault-pipeline interaction and comparison with centrifuge tests
 Pipelines extend thousands of kilometers across wide geographic areas to provide products for modern life. It is inevitable therefore that pipelines must pass through active faulting zones. The safety of pipe networks should be maintained by employing an appropriate design method. Beam-on-spring analysis is the normal design approach, but it is difficult to choose the spring stiffness for pipelines crossing a dip-slip (normal/reverse) fault, since the native soils beneath the pipe trench may provide extra restraints on relative pipe-soil movement. Alternatively, three-dimensional finite element analysis has the potential to provide useful design calculations which account for (a) axial and flexural stiffness of the pipe, (b) geometry and kinematics of the problem (including the actual trench size and correct ground motion), (c) stiffness of the pipe relative to the soil stiffness assembled from the different components of the surrounding soil (the undisturbed native soil material, the bedding soil, the sidefill and the backfill), and (d) nonlinear effects like formation of gaps and shear failure of the soil. Using geotechnical centrifuge test measurements, three-dimensional finite element models are developed to capture the behaviours observed for buried pipelines of various materials subjected to differential ground movements associated with normal faulting. Material nonlinearity, geometric nonlinearity, and the contact, detachment and slippage behaviour on the soil-pipe interface are explicitly modeled. Using hexahedron continuum elements, satisfactory reproductions of the centrifuge experiments are achieved for flexural responses of the test pipes. The finite element analysis is then used to investigate the impact of trench burial conditions.
Distribution systems fault analysis considering fault resistance estimation
 Fault resistance is a critical component of electric power systems operation due to its stochastic nature. If not considered, this parameter may interfere in fault analysis studies. This paper presents an iterative fault analysis algorithm for unbalanced three-phase distribution systems that considers a fault resistance estimate. The proposed algorithm is composed by two sub-routines, namely the fault resistance and the bus impedance. The fault resistance sub-routine, based on local fault records, estimates the fault resistance. The bus impedance sub-routine, based on the previously estimated fault resistance, estimates the system voltages and currents. Numeric simulations on the IEEE 37-bus distribution system demonstrate the algorithm’s robustness and potential for offline applications, providing additional fault information to Distribution Operation Centers and enhancing the system restoration process.
Primary frequency control and dynamic grid support for vehicle-to-grid in transmission systems
 Because of vehicle-to-grid (V2G) growth, the provision of ancillary services by V2Gs is now required in the most recent network codes. A lack of primary frequency control (PFC) and dynamic grid support (DGS) in V2Gs could thus be detrimental to power system stability. This research presents a detailed V2G model with a hybrid energy storage system (HESS). The main contribution of the model is the simultaneous provision of PFC and DGS at its plug-in terminal. PFC includes both droop response (DR) and inertial response (IR). Accordingly, a frequency management system (FMS) determines the command of the V2G converter control for PFC without disturbing the scheduled charging-discharging. Simultaneously, this control enables DGS. The design of a new model for connecting V2Gs at transmission level allows the assessment of power system stability. This research study analysed the stability of an IEEE 39 bus system with 30% V2G penetration after critical contingencies. Various strategies for providing ancillary services in V2Gs (DGS and/or PFC) were compared in two scenarios defined by extreme V2G operating modes (as load or generator) at different locations. An analysis of the impact of each ancillary service as well as their interaction was performed to measure their influence on both system stability and critical operating variables of V2Gs. The results showed that system stability remained almost invariable when the V2Gs included PFC (DR+IR) and DGS.
Location correction technique based on mobile communication base station for earthquake population heat map
 China has mobile phone penetration rate of over 96.2%. Mobile phone has become the largest Internet terminal for Chinese Internet users. Population geographic distribution in earthquake zones can be got based on mobile phone positioning and map matching. For reducing earthquake black-box stage, we propose a real-time collection, correction and schedule algorithm of population position data by four stream processing environments (Redis, Hbase, Kafka, and Spark Streaming) in this paper. For labeling precisely population geographic distribution on the network map, matching of population geographic coordinates and map coordinates are optimized by sample comparison based on location data of mobile communication base stations and prefecture level cities. The test result shows the proposed system is high efficient and can rapidly respond to any emerging parallel tasks during the earthquake. A high-precision heat map of affected population can be produced and published on-line within 2 min after the devastating earthquake happened.
An improved bistable stochastic resonance and its application on weak fault characteristic identification of centrifugal compressor blades
 Large-scale centrifugal compressors play an important role in modern industry. As the core component of a centrifugal compressor, the blades are prone to fatigue failure due to the long-term operation in complex conditions. If the early stage blade failure cannot be found in time, catastrophes could be caused by this potential risk. However, since the blades work in a closed environment, there is always lack of effective monitoring techniques. Aiming at this challenge, pressure pulsation signal inside the compressor is studied in this paper for the condition monitoring and weak fault waring of blades indirectly. A big issue is that the fault characteristic induced by incipient blade crack is quite weak, which will be much weaker in pressure pulsation signal, and interfered with strong noise. Hence, appropriate feature extraction methods are urgently needed. An adaptive bistable stochastic resonance method combined with multi-scale noise tuning is proposed to improve this problem. As the classical stochastic resonance is just suitable for small parameter signal, normalized scale transformation is adopted to overcome this disadvantage. In addition, numerical stability analysis for the stochastic resonance system is conducted to ensure the convergence of system output and improve the characteristic enhancement performance of proposed method. Simulation signal is constructed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method first. Then, the experimental pressure pulsation signal is analyzed by this method. Analysis results verify that the proposed diagnostic framework can effectively identify the weak characteristic frequency induced by blade crack and has potential for long-term condition monitoring and fault warning of large-scale centrifugal compressor blades.
An efficient diagnostic technique for distribution systems based on under fault voltages and currents
 Service continuity is one of the major aspects in the definition of the quality of the electrical energy, for this reason the research in the field of faults diagnostic for distribution systems is spreading ever more. Moreover the increasing interest around modern distribution systems automation for management purposes gives faults diagnostics more tools to detect outages precisely and in short times. In this paper, the applicability of an efficient fault location and characterization methodology within a centralized monitoring system is discussed. The methodology, appropriate for any kind of fault, is based on the use of the analytical model of the network lines and uses the fundamental components rms values taken from the transient measures of line currents and voltages at the MV/LV substations. The fault location and identification algorithm, proposed by the authors and suitably restated, has been implemented on a microprocessor-based device that can be installed at each MV/LV substation. The speed and precision of the algorithm have been tested against the errors deriving from the fundamental extraction within the prescribed fault clearing times and against the inherent precision of the electronic device used for computation. The tests have been carried out using Matlab Simulink for simulating the faulted system.
A Smartwatch-Based Framework for Real-Time and Online Assessment and Mobility Monitoring
 Smartphone and smartwatch technology is changing the transmission and monitoring landscape for patients and research participants to communicate their healthcare information in real time. Flexible, bidirectional and real-time control of communication allows development of a rich set of healthcare applications that can provide interactivity with the participant and adapt dynamically to their changing environment. Additionally, smartwatches have a variety of sensors suitable for collecting physical activity and location data. The combination of all these features makes it possible to transmit the collected data to a remote server, and thus, to monitor physical activity and potentially social activity in real time. As smartwatches exhibit high user acceptability and increasing popularity, they are ideal devices for monitoring activities for extended periods of time to investigate the physical activity patterns in free-living condition and their relationship with the seemingly random occurring illnesses, which have remained a challenge in the current literature. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to develop a smartwatch-based framework for real-time and online assessment and mobility monitoring (ROAMM). The proposed ROAMM framework will include a smartwatch application and server. The smartwatch application will be used to collect and preprocess data. The server will be used to store and retrieve data, remote monitor, and for other administrative purposes. With the integration of sensor-based and user-reported data collection, the ROAMM framework allows for data visualization and summary statistics in real-time.
A laboratory experiment to monitor the contact state of a fault by transmission waves
 We performed a series of laboratory experiments in which elastic waves were transmitted across a simulated fault. Two types of experiments were carried out: (1) Normal Stress Holding Test (NSHT): normal stress was kept constant for about 3 h without shear stress and transmission waves were observed. (2) Shear Stress Increasing Test (SSIT): shear stress was gradually increased until a stick-slip event occurred. Transmission waves were continuously observed throughout the process of stress accumulation. We focused on the change in transmission waves during the application of shear stress and especially during precursory slips. It was found in NSHT that the amplitude of transmission waves linearly increased with the logarithm of stationary contact time. The increase amounted to a few percent after about 3 h. Creep at asperity contacts is responsible for this phenomenon. From a theoretical consideration, it was concluded that the real contact area increased with the logarithm of stationary contact time. We observed in SSIT a significant increase in wave amplitude with shear stress application. This phenomenon cannot be attributed to the time effect observed in NSHT. Instead, it can be explained by the mechanism of “junction growth” proposed by Tabor. Junction growth yields an increase in real contact area. It is required for junction growth to occur that the material in contact is already plastic under a purely normal loading condition. A computer simulation confirmed that this requirement was satisfied in our experiments. We also found that the rate at which the amplitude increased was slightly reduced prior to a stick-slip event. The onset time of the reduction well coincides with the onset of precursory slip. The cause of the reduction is attributed to the reset of stationary contact time due to displacement. This interpretation is supported by the result of NSHT. Taking the time of stationary contact in SSIT into account, we may expect the change in wave amplitude to be, at most, only a few percent. The observed slight reduction in increasing rate is, in this sense, reasonable. The static stiffness of the fault also decreases with precursory slip. It was also found that low frequency waves are a better indicator of precursory slip than high frequency waves. This might suggest that low frequency waves with longer wavelength are a better indicator of average behavior of faults. The problem, however, merits a further investigation. The shifts in phase were also found to be a good indicator of the change in contact state of the fault. The changes in both amplitude and phase of transmission waves are unifyingly understood through the theory of transmission coefficient presented by Pyrak-Nolte et al. Rough surfaces have a tendency to give larger stick-slips than smooth surfaces. The amount of precursory slip is larger for rough surfaces than for smooth surfaces. Although it was confirmed by a computer simulation that rough surfaces have larger contact diameters than smooth surfaces, the rigorous relationship between the surface roughness (contact diameter) and the amount of precursory slips was not established.
Gas supply reliability assessment of natural gas transmission pipeline systems
 The uncertainty of market demand and dynamic behaviour of the pipeline system are usually ignored in previous gas supply reliability assessments. With the intent of overcoming these deficiencies, a novel methodology to assess the gas supply reliability of natural gas transmission pipeline systems is proposed in this paper. Considering both gas supply capacity and market demand uncertainties, calculations of these two items are integrated into a single Monte Carlo simulation. On each Monte Carlo trial, the hydraulic analysis of unsteady flow is combined with the state transition process simulation to calculate the gas supply capacity. In terms of market demand, the load duration curve technology is employed to predict the amount of demand. Then, the indicator proposed to quantify gas supply reliability is calculated on each trial. Finally, the average gas supply reliability is obtained based on N Monte Carlo trials. Applications of this methodology are demonstrated through a real transmission pipeline system. Thereafter, the method is compared with previous approaches and differences are discussed. Furthermore, the impacts of supply capacity and market demand uncertainties on the gas supply reliability are investigated and suggestions to improve the gas supply reliability are proposed.
Framework for fault diagnosis with multi-source sensor nodes in nuclear power plants based on a Bayesian network
 Fault detection and diagnosis (FDD) provides safety alarms and diagnostic functions for a nuclear power plant (NPP), which comprises large and complex systems. Here, a technical framework based on a Bayesian network (BN) for FDD is introduced because of its advantages of easy visualization, expression of parameter uncertainties, and ability to perform diagnosis with incomplete data. However, a BN raises a new problem when it is applied to NPPs; i.e., how to cope with parameter or node information from multiple sensors. Sensor data must be consolidated because creating a single node for each sensor in the network would lead to information overload. This paper proposes a possible solution to this issue and then constructs an FDD system framework with a BN as the backbone. Within this framework, principal component analysis is used to remove information from malfunctioning sensors, and fuzzy theory and data fusion are combined to further improve data accuracy and combine data from multiple sensors into one node. On this basis, a BN inference junction tree algorithm is used in FDD because it can deal with incomplete data. A BN model for a pressurized water reactor is created to validate the method framework. Simulation experiments indicate the suitability of the proposed method for online FDD in NPPs using multi-sensor information. It is thus concluded that the proposed method is a feasible scheme for the FDD of NPPs.
Measurement of Instantaneous Angular Displacement Fluctuation and its applications on gearbox fault detection
 Recently, Instantaneous Angular Speed (IAS) measurement is successfully established and prevalently applied to a wide variety of machines due to the hypothesis that the speed fluctuation of rotating machinery carries plentiful dynamic responses. Nevertheless, exploration and application based on angular signal are still insufficient. Under the same hypothesis, in this paper, we introduced an extended algorithm named Instantaneous Angular Phase Demodulation (IAPD), together with the selection of optimal sideband family to extract the Instantaneous Angular Displacement Fluctuation (IADF) signal. In order to evaluate the performance of IADF signal, an effective approach was demonstrated using IADF signal to address the fault detection and diagnosis issue. After extracting the IADF signal, a much effective method was developed to deal with the large amount of data generated during the signal collection process. Then, we used the well-developed techniques, i.e., empirical mode decomposition (EMD) and envelope analysis, to undertake the signal de-noising and feature extraction task. The effectiveness and capability of the IADF signal were evaluated by two kinds of gearboxes under differentconditions in practice. In particular, the prevalent IAS signal and vibration signal were also involved and testified by the proposed procedure. Experimental results demonstrated that by means of the IADF signal, the combination of EMD and envelope analysis not only provided accurate identification results with a higher signal-to-noise ratio, but was also capable of revealing the fault characteristics significantly and effectively. In contrast, although the IAS signal had the potential ability to diagnose the serious fault, it failed for the slight crack case. Moreover, the same procedure even its improvements, i.e., ensemble empirical mode decomposition and local mean decomposition, all failed to recognize the faults in terms of vibration signals.
Model-based Fault-Tolerant Control of Uncertain Particulate Processes: Integrating Fault Detection, Estimation and Accommodation
 This work presents a methodology for the integrated identification, estimation and accommodation of control actuator faults in particulate processes with discretely-sampled measurements and plant-model mismatch. Initially, a stabilizing state feedback controller is designed on the basis of a reduced-order model of the infinite-dimensional system, and the closed-loop stability region is characterized in terms of the model uncertainty, the fault magnitude, the sampling period and the control design parameters. When state measurements are unavailable, the reduced-order inter-sample model predictor generates state estimates which are updated at each sampling time. A moving-horizon optimization problem is then formulated and solved for on-line actuator fault detection, isolation and estimation using past state and input data. The resulting estimates are used to locate the operating point with respect to the closed-loop stability region, which in turn is used to carry out the fault accommodation logic via updating the pot-fault control model and/or adjusting the controller design parameters. The developed methodology is illustrated using a non-isothermal continuous crystallizer example.
On the nucleation of planar faults during low temperature and high stress creep of single crystal Ni-base superalloys
 The present work studies the nucleation of planar faults in the early stages of low temperature (750 °C) and high stress (800 MPa) creep of a Ni-base single crystal superalloy (SX). Two families of 60° dislocations with different Burgers vectors were detected in the transmission electron microscope (TEM). These can react and form a planar fault in the γ′ phase. A 2D discrete dislocation model helps to rationalize a sequence of events which lead to the nucleation of a planar fault. First, one 60° channel dislocation approaches another 60° interface dislocation with a different Burgers vector. At a distance of 5 nm, it splits up into two Shockley partials. The interface dislocation is pushed into the γ′-phase where it creates a small antiphase boundary. It can only move on when the leading Shockley partial joins it and creates an overall 1/3<112> superdislocation. This process is fast and therefore is difficult to observe. The results obtained in the present work contribute to a better understanding of the processes which govern the early stages of low temperature and high stress primary creep of SX.
Rotating Machinery Fault Diagnosis Using Long-short-term Memory Recurrent Neural Network
 With the fast development of science and industrial technologies, the fault diagnosis and identification has become a crucial technique for most industrial applications. To ensure the system safety and reliability, many conventional model based fault diagnosis methods have been proposed. However, with the increase in the complexity and uncertainty of engineering system, it is not feasible to establish accurate mathematical models most of the time. Rotating machinery, due to the complexity in its mechanical structure and transmission mechanics, is within this category. Thus, data-driven method is required for fault diagnosis in rotating machinery. In this paper, an intelligent fault diagnosis scheme based on long-short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network (RNN) is proposed. With the available data measurement signals from multiple sensors in the system, both spatial and temporal dependencies can be utilized to detect the fault and classify the corresponding fault types. A hardware experimental study on wind turbine drivetrain diagnostics simulator (WTDDS) is conducted to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
A cluster-based dissimilarity learning approach for localized fault classification in Smart Grids
 Modeling and recognizing faults and outages in a real-world power grid is a challenging task, in line with the modern concept of Smart Grids. The availability of Smart Sensors and data networks allows to “x-ray scan” the power grid states. The present paper deals with a recognition system of fault states described by heterogeneous information in the real-world power grid managed by the ACEA company in Italy. The pattern recognition problem is tackled as two-class classification problem using a Clustering-Evolutionary Computing approach and it is able to generate together with a Boolean decision also a score value. The last is computed through a fuzzy membership function and output values are interpreted as a reliability measure for the Boolean decision rule. As many real-world pattern recognition applications, the starting feature space is structured and the custom based dissimilarity measure adopted leads to a non-Euclidean dissimilarity matrix. Hence, a comparison of the classification performances between the proposed two-class classifier system and the well-known Support Vector Machine, on the data set at hands, is performed using a suitable kernel designed for the non-Euclidean case.
Reliability assessment of generation and transmission systems using fault-tree analysis
 This paper presents a method that integrates deterministic approach with fault-tree analysis for reliability assessment of a composite system (generation and transmission in power systems). The contingency screening is conducted in the first step. The results are further classified into three clusters in the second step: normal, local trouble and system trouble. The fault-tree analysis is used to assess the reliability of the composite system in the third step. Finally, Risk Reduction Worth is adopted as a measure of importance for identifying the crucial element that has significant impact on the reliability. In this paper, a composite system in Taiwan serves as an example for illustrating the simulation results attained by the proposed method. The simulation results, verified by Siemens PTI PSS/E TPLAN software package, show that the proposed method is applicable for large scale power systems.
A novel traveling-wave-based directional protection scheme for MTDC grid with inductive DC terminal
 This paper presents a new rapid and reliable directional protection scheme for Multi-Terminal DC (MTDC) grid with an inductive DC terminal. The proposed method determines an internal or external fault easily by comparing the transient energy polarities of traveling waves measured at both ends of each line section. Compared with the conventional direction principle based on traveling waves, the proposed method performs more reliably in the case of an inductive terminal. Moreover, the double-end fault location method based on traveling waves is integrated into the protection scheme to predict the accurate fault location. The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by a meshed DC grid modeled in PSCAD/EMTDC software. Extensive simulation results show the proposed method is able to determine internal or external faults correctly under conditions of different fault types, fault distances and fault resistances. Furthermore, the proposed method is also insensitive to the sampling frequency and noises.
Power Line Galloping Acceleration Sensor Location Algorithm
 In practice, many cases need acceleration signal into the displacement. Combined with the practical application of transmission wire dancing, using fourier transform, the least squares, digital filtering, frequency domain integral etc. Put forward a kind of acceleration signals converts the displacement of the frequency domain analysis method. Finally, do the related experiments of one-dimensional displacement, two-dimensional displacement and three-dimensional displacement. The results show that the algorithm is high precision, and can be used for transmission wire dancing monitoring.
Automatic autonomous vision-based power line inspection: A review of current status and the potential role of deep learning
 To maintain the reliability, availability, and sustainability of electricity supply, electricity companies regularly perform visual inspections on their transmission and distribution networks. These inspections have been typically carried out using foot patrol and/or helicopter-assisted methods to plan for necessary repair or replacement works before any major damage, which may cause power outage. This solution is quite slow, expensive, and potentially dangerous. In recent years, numerous researches have been conducted to automate the visual inspections by using automated helicopters, flying robots, and/or climbing robots. However, due to the high accuracy requirements of the task and its unique challenges, automatic vision-based inspection has not been widely adopted. In this paper, with the aim of providing a good starting point for researchers who are interested in developing a fully automatic autonomous vision-based power line inspection system, we conduct an extensive literature review. First, we examine existing power line inspection methods with special attention paid to highlight their advantages and disadvantages. Next, we summarize well-suited tasks and review potential data sources for automatic vision-based inspection. Then, we survey existing automatic vision-based power line inspection systems. Based on that, we propose a new automatic autonomous vision-based power line inspection concept that uses Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) inspection as the main inspection method, optical images as the primary data source, and deep learning as the backbone of data analysis and inspection. Then, we present an overview of possibilities and challenges of deep vision (deep learning for computer vision) approaches for both UAV navigation and UAV inspection and discuss possible solutions to the challenges. Finally, we conclude the paper with an outlook for the future of this field and propose potential next steps for implementing the concept.
Characterisation of power system events on South African transmission power lines
 Records of faults occurring on the South African power transmission system over a 16-year period have been collected. Over 12,000 faults were analysed to find statistical relationships between local climate, key design parameters of the overhead lines, and the main causes of power system faults identified as bird streamers, lightning, fire and pollution. The results characterise the performance of the South African transmission system on a probabilistic basis and illustrate differences in fault cause statistics for the summer and winter rainfall areas of South Africa and for different times of the year and day. The analysis illustrates the effectiveness of bird guards on towers.
Analysis of the faults involving adjacent conductors of a six-phase transmission line together with a modelling of the phase conversion transformer
 In a bulk power transmission system the amount of power transfer can be increased by converting the widely used three-phase double-circuit lines into six-phase single-circuit lines instead of upgrading the transmission voltage. In this conversion process only a phase conversion transformer at each end of the line is required while the existing conductors, towers and corridors of three-phase lines can be used intact. However, this conversion will have an effect on the system fault currents and fault levels. The well-known symmetrical component method is suitable for fault analysis in a three-phase system, but it has been found unsuitable for analysing the practical faults on a six-phase line and for modelling the phase conversion transformer. This paper illustrates the way the phase conversion transformer has been incorporated in the six-phase line fault modelling and also presents a new application of the straightforward loop current method by using it to determine the currents and fault MVA corresponding to the common and practical faults on a 132 kV six-phase line. The same method has also been applied to the fault analysis of a 132 kV and a 230 kV three-phase line and the results are compared with those for the six-phase line.
Online estimation of the electrochemical impedance of polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells using broad-band current excitation
 In this work, an online algorithm to estimate the electrochemical impedance spectrum of polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) is presented. The electrochemical impedance, constituting the linear dynamic relation between current and voltage, is described by a discrete time filter model. The unknown model parameters are estimated from streaming time domain data using a recursive algorithm based on the generalized total least squares (GTLS) technique. This allows for flexible noise assumptions, leading to unbiased parameter estimates in the presence of noisy current and voltage measurements. Therefore, the robustness of the proposed method is significantly increased. Broad-band current excitation signals are utilized as to sufficiently stimulate the fuel cell for the online parameter estimation. The model order is selected using Akaike's information criterion (AIC), leading to a parsimonious model. Equivalent circuits are automatically generated using Foster's method of analog circuit synthesis. The applicability and benefits of the proposed algorithm regarding fuel cell diagnostics are demonstrated using measurement data of a small scale single cell (5 cm2 active area) subjected to a broad-band excitation.
Fault location in multi-ring distribution network using artificial neural network
 This paper examines the problem of locating faults that may occur anywhere in multi-ring electrical distribution networks, which may affect the reliability of power distribution. The developed method is based on using artificial neural network techniques as the algorithm to save time in fault location. This technique is applied to an existing 13.8-kv distribution network, which caters to an oil production field spread over an area of ≈60 km2. The nature of this distribution system, which consists of multi-ring configuration, illustrates the complexity of the network. Simulation results for a case study have shown the feasibility and effectiveness of the suggested fault location method.
Condition based maintenance of bearings and gears for fault detection – A review
 Machines without vibrations in the working environment are something non-existent, which create vibrations and henceforth result in deterioration of machine apparatuses in the long run bringing on failure of a few subsystems or the machine itself. Vibration analysis is the most predominant procedure to recognize the nature and degree of any issues in machines and components (i.e. bearings and gears) or any upkeep choices identified with the machine. The condition-based maintenance is the request based upkeep to guarantee the machine accessibility by convenient maintenance activities and lessening breakdown upkeep. This paper introduces the state-of-the-art-review to give a wide and great reference for analysts to be used on condition based maintenance of bearings and gears for fault detection.
Fault detection method for grid-connected photovoltaic plants
 In this work, an automatic fault detection method for grid-connected photovoltaic (GCPV) plants is presented. The proposed method generates a diagnostic signal which indicates possible faults occurring in the GCPV plant. In order to determine the location of the fault, the ratio between DC and AC power is monitored. The software tool developed identifies different types of faults like: fault in a photovoltaic module, fault in a photovoltaic string, fault in an inverter, and a general fault that may include partial shading, PV ageing, or MPPT error. In addition to the diagnostic signal, other essential information about the system can be displayed each 10 min on the designed tool. The method has been validated using an experimental database of climatic and electrical parameters regarding a 20 kWp GCPV plant installed on the rooftop of the municipality of Trieste, Italy. The obtained results indicate that the proposed method can detect and locate correctly different type of faults in both DC and AC sides of the GCPV plant. The developed software can help users to check possible faults on their systems in real time.
Adaptive setting of distance relay for MOV-protected series compensated line considering wind power
 Series compensated lines are protected from overvoltage by metal-oxide-varistors (MOVs) connected in parallel with the capacitor bank. The nonlinear characteristics of MOV devices add complexity to fault analysis and distance protection operation. During faults, the impedance of the line is modified by an equivalent impedance of the parallel MOV/capacitor circuit, which affects the distance protection. The intermittent wind generation introduces additional complexity to the system performance and distance protection. Wind variation affects the fault current level and equivalent MOV/capacitor impedance during a fault, and hence the distance relay operation. This paper proposes an adaptive setting method for the mho relay distance protection of series compensated line considering effects of wind power variation and MOV operation. The distributed parameters of a transmission line are taken into account to avoid overreaching and underreaching of distance relays. A test system is simulated, and results demonstrate the ability of the proposed method to resetting the distance relays to adapt to various system conditions, including three wind generation and different compensation levels.
Analysis of simultaneous unbalanced short circuit and open conductor faults in power systems with untransposed lines and six-phase sections
 The paper introduces a generalized method for analysis of multiple, simultaneous short circuit, open circuit, and open circuit falling conductor faults in mixed three-phase and six-phase power systems with untransposed lines. The method is systematic and suitable for all types of faults, any number of simultaneous faults, and any number of phases. Calculation of all network unbalanced voltages and currents during faults is done in one straightforward step. Coupling among sequence networks in untransposed transmission lines is accounted for. Coupling between the three-sequence networks of the three-phase part and the six-sequence networks of six-phase part is also derived. The method is applied also for transient stability study of mixed three-phase and six-phase power systems during any type of faults. Detailed derivation of the governing equations in each part is presented. Simulation results on the IEEE 300-bus system and the IEEE 30-bus system are given to validate the proposed method.
Combined Mathematical Morphology and Data Mining Based High Impedance Fault Detection
 This paper presents an intelligent scheme for high impedance fault detection using mathematical morphology and decision tree. The current signals are pre-processed using mathematical morphology and estimation of the signal features is used to generate a decision tree model. The final relaying operation based on generated data mining decision tree model. The proposed method is tested on a standard test system with a wide range of power system operating conditions. Simulation results show that the proposed method can be highly reliable in detecting high impedance fault for harmless and secured operations.
A novel approach to adaptive single phase auto-reclosing scheme for EHV transmission lines
 In modern interconnected power systems, nearly 80% of faults in high voltage transmission lines are intrinsically transient. The necessity of rapid fault clearing has resulted in fast development of protection equipments. Moreover, need for reliable supply of loads has led to improvements in single phase auto-reclosing equipments. In this paper, a novel and efficient method is proposed that leading to improved performance and efficiency of single phase auto-reclosing. In the case of occurrence of permanent faults, the proposed yardstick is accurate and authentic to diagnose fault type (transient or permanent). To validate accuracy and authenticity of the proposed method, a 400 kV transmission system is simulated using EMTP software and results are presented.
A novel adaptive stochastic resonance method based on coupled bistable systems and its application in rolling bearing fault diagnosis
 Stochastic resonance (SR), as a typical noise-assisted signal processing method, has been extensively studied in weak signal detection by virtue of the advantage of using noise to enhance the feature of periodic signal. And how to better apply the SR method in engineering signal processing has always been the research hotspot. In this paper, a novel adaptive SR method based on coupled bistable systems (ACBSR) is proposed to further improve the performance of SR method for weak signal detection. Compared with the cascaded bistable SR system, the suggested coupled bistable SR (CBSR) system can enhance the target signal while suppressing the low-frequency and high-frequency interferences, whose output behavior exhibits good bandpass filtering characteristic. In addition, a weighted spectral peak signal-to-noise ratio (WPSNR) index is constructed by using spectral peak SNR, spectral correlation coefficient and zero-crossing ratio to serve as the measurement index of SR for periodic signal detection. The constructed WPSNR index is simple in form and easy to calculate, which can quantitatively evaluate the resonance effect of periodic signal, even though the target signal frequency cannot be estimated accurately. And the combination of WPSNR index and the CBSR system is beneficial to improve the performance of SR method in rolling bearing fault diagnosis. Experiments and engineering application are performed to verify the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed ACBSR method in comparison with the traditional SR method.
Sensitivity of hydraulic properties to dynamic strain within a fault damage zone
 Seismically induced water level changes were observed in seven wells in the south part of the Tanlu fault zone, eastern China. Three wells are located within damage zone of the Tanlu major fault zone, and four wells are relatively far from the fault. The three wells located within the fault damage zone showed strong sustained water level changes in response to the passage of seismic waves, while the four wells outside the fault zone showed oscillational behaviors during the passage of seismic waves. We utilized tidal factor and phase shift as a proxy for hydraulic property and found that, at the three wells within the fault damage zone, hydraulic properties (permeability and poroelastic properties) changed after multiple large earthquakes, in contrast, at the four wells outside the fault damage zone, hydraulic properties remained unchanged before and after each earthquake. Contrasting the hydraulic response behaviors and properties within and outside the fault damage zone, we suggest that hydraulic properties within a fault damage zone are more sensitive and vulnerable than that away from the fault damage zone. The sensitivity and vulnerability may be correlated to seismically induced dynamic strains loading on damaged rocks, which can effectively change permeability and poroelastic properties of a groundwater system.
Distance relaying for transmission line using support vector machine and radial basis function neural network
 The proposed technique consists of preprocessing the fault current signal samples using discrete wavelet transform to yield the change in energy (ce) and standard deviation (sd) at the appropriate level of decomposition of fault current and voltage signal for faulty phase identification and fault location determination. After feature extraction (ce and sd) from fault current signal, support vector machine (SVM) is used for decision of fault or no-fault on any phase or multiple phases of the transmission line. The ground detection is done by a proposed indicator ‘index’ with a threshold value. Once the faulty phases are identified, the fault location from the relaying point can be accurately estimated using RBFNN (radial basis function neural network) with recursive least square algorithm. For fault location both current and voltage signals are preprocessed through wavelet transform to yield change in energy (ce) and standard deviation (sd) which are used to train and test the RBFNN to provide fault location from the relaying point accurately. The combined SVM and RBFNN based technique is tested for faults with wide range of operating conditions and provides accurate results for fault classification and location determination, respectively.
Dynamic performance of the power differential relay for transmission line protection
 Power differential relay was proposed recently as a practical relaying scheme for transmission systems. In this paper, the dynamic behaviour of the power differential relay is thoroughly investigated. These investigations are important to evaluate the overall performance of such relaying functions. For this target, a detailed simulation of a typical transmission system was developed via the MATLAB/SIMULINK package using detailed modeling for each power system element. Both stable and unstable power swings are considered. Moreover, single machine-infinite bus and double machine system operations are considered for all possible faulty and non-faulty conditions. All applied test results confirm the superiority of the power differential relay as an ideal candidate for transmission system protection applications.
Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis
 The paper deals with detection of fault conditions based on measurements of vibration made on rotary machines in various industries. Detection of sources of vibration will be made based on the amplitude spectra and phase relationships of vibrations of individual machine parts, using the envelope of technology in detecting recurring events with low levels of the measured signal and processing of high-frequency signal in the range of acoustic emission. Because the display of a set of symptoms to the space of fault conditions for these methods is not simple, it is advisable to use a multi-parameter approach which means that important decisions are made on the basis of different types of measurements, for example, with using techniques of modal analysis and operational modal analysis. The paper presented the results of various measurements on the machinery.
Application study of superconducting fault current limiters in meshed HVDC grids protected by fast protection relays
 The complexity of DC side short circuit fault current interruption has been identified as a major drawback of realization of multi-terminal HVDC grids. Although application of superconducting fault current limiters (SFCLs) in protection of HVDC systems based on slow protective schemes has been studied in the literature, its application in meshed HVDC systems based on modern and fast protective schemes has not been investigated, yet. This paper scrutinizes the SFCL application in the meshed HVDC grids protected by the fast DC protective schemes and fast hybrid DC circuit breakers. The purpose of SFCL application is to reduce the current interruption requirement of the HVDC circuit breaker and size of its elements. This research analyzes the requirements of suitable SFCL considering the fault operation behaviors of local protective relays and the hybrid DC circuit breakers. The results show that the appropriated SFCL can reduce fault current peak, size of current limiting inductor and also fault identification time. The application of SFCL not only reduces the size of surge arrester in the hybrid DC circuit breaker, but also can significantly decrease the current stress on the hybrid DC circuit breaker.
TECHNO-ECONOMIC analysis of high potential offshore wind farm locations in Turkey
 The wind energy market is rapidly growing in Turkey which made it one of the top three countries in Europe, and the seventh in the world, in terms of wind power capacity addition in 2016. Turkey has high onshore and offshore wind power potential which is widely distributed across the country. However, there has been no offshore wind farm (OWF) in operation in Turkey. This paper performs a comprehensive techno-economic analysis of OWF projects in three of the most promising wind locations (namely, Bozcaada, Gokceada, and Bandirma). The optimal OWF sites are selected by applying a multi-criteria site selection method to Turkey's coastal regions. Technical analysis consists of annual energy production estimation using the Virtual Wind Farm model and development of various electrical system design topologies for the proposed OWF projects. A detailed economic feasibility analysis is then conducted using a discounted cash flow economic model that considers current Turkish renewable energy support schemes under various discount rates. Taking the OWF investor's perspective, this study accounts for the key economic indicators which are used in the decision-making processes. The results of various model runs are compared to determine the best options for the proposed OWF investments to be profitable. It is shown that the proposed OWF projects are economically feasible only in the case of meeting certain techno-economic conditions. The radial electrical design is proved to be the most cost-effective option. Among the proposed projects, the Bozcaada OWF appears to be the best investment option with a levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) of $81.85–109.55 per MWh while the Bandirma OWF is the least economically viable with an LCOE of $100.73–135.97 per MWh. The findings are extrapolated to suggest feasible recommendations for the investors and policy makers which will help to shape the offshore wind energy outlook of Turkey.
A fast microprocessor-based computational algorithm for transmission line fault impedance
 The paper presents a fast microprocessor-based algorithm to calculate impedance. The developed computing procedure employs simple circuit theory and avoids unnecessary complicated mathematics. The algorithm is most suitable for microprocessor applications in high speed transmission line protection. The algorithm calculates the positive-sequence impedance from the relaying location to the fault using sampled values of current and voltage. The algorithm is accurate and reliable in practice.
Comparative study of superconducting fault current limiter both for LCC-HVDC and VSC-HVDC systems
 High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) system has been evaluated as the optimum solution for the renewable energy transmission and long-distance power grid connections. In spite of the various advantages of HVDC system, it still has been regarded as an unreliable system compared to AC system due to its vulnerable characteristics on the power system fault. Furthermore, unlike AC system, optimum protection and switching device has not been fully developed yet. Therefore, in order to enhance the reliability of the HVDC systems mitigation of power system fault and reliable fault current limiting and switching devices should be developed. In this paper, in order to mitigate HVDC fault, both for Line Commutated Converter HVDC (LCC-HVDC) and Voltage Source Converter HVDC (VSC-HVDC) system, an application of resistive superconducting fault current limiter which has been known as optimum solution to cope with the power system fault was considered. Firstly, simulation models for two types of LCC-HVDC and VSC-HVDC system which has point to point connection model were developed. From the designed model, fault current characteristics of faulty condition were analyzed. Second, application of SFCL on each types of HVDC system and comparative study of modified fault current characteristics were analyzed. Consequently, it was deduced that an application of AC-SFCL on LCC-HVDC system with point to point connection was desirable solution to mitigate the fault current stresses and to prevent commutation failure in HVDC electric power system interconnected with AC grid.
Power system fault diagnosis based on history driven differential evolution and stochastic time domain simulation
 Fault diagnosis is an important task in power system analysis. In this paper, a hybrid method is proposed to perform online fault diagnosis of transmission lines. Stochastic time domain simulation (STDS) is firstly introduced to generate simulated fault and system data so as to improve the computational speed of fault diagnosis and handle the possible malfunction of protective relays and circuit breakers. The fault diagnosis problem is then formulated as an optimization problem, which can take into account the possible malfunction of protection devices and post-fault system trajectories. We propose a novel optimization algorithm, namely history driven differential evolution (HDDE) to solve the formulated optimization problem. The proposed methodology is finally tested using comprehensive case studies to demonstrate its effectiveness.
Locating faults in the transmission network using sparse field measurements, simulation data and genetic algorithm
 The paper presents a modeling and simulation approach to locate a fault in a transmission network. The basic concept is to match phasors recorded during fault with the corresponding phasors obtained by simulating the same fault. For the simulation, it is necessary to assume a fault location in a power system model, and then carry out short circuit study. The matching degree can be calculated by a pre-set criterion. The operation is repeated till the best match is found. The process of finding the best match is an optimization problem, therefore, the genetic algorithm (GA) is introduced to find the optimal solution. The proposed approach is suitable for situations where only sparsely recorded field data is available. Under such circumstances, the proposed approach can offer more accurate results than other known techniques.
Transmission scanning electron microscopy: Defect observations and image simulations
 The new capabilities of a FEG scanning electron microscope (SEM) equipped with a scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) detector for defect characterization have been studied in parallel with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) imaging. Stacking faults and dislocations have been characterized in strontium titanate, a polycrystalline nickel-base superalloy and a single crystal cobalt-base material. Imaging modes that are similar to conventional TEM (CTEM) bright field (BF) and dark field (DF) and STEM are explored, and some of the differences due to the different accelerating voltages highlighted. Defect images have been simulated for the transmission scanning electron microscopy (TSEM) configuration using a scattering matrix formulation, and diffraction contrast in the SEM is discussed in comparison to TEM. Interference effects associated with conventional TEM, such as thickness fringes and bending contours are significantly reduced in TSEM by using a convergent probe, similar to a STEM imaging modality, enabling individual defects to be imaged clearly even in high dislocation density regions. Beyond this, TSEM provides significant advantages for high throughput and dynamic in-situ characterization.
An Accurate Method for Fault Location on Electric Power Transmission Lines
 This paper proposes a new method for fault location on electric power transmission lines. The problem is here approached by identifying from pre-fault records an equivalent circuit for the far end of a transmission line. Based on the assumption that this equivalent is valid for the first few post fault cycles the position of the fault is calculated by solving the system of nonlinear equations, which can be formulated for each type of fault, using recorded fault waveforms. These equations are solved by applying Newton-Raphson technique. The method is finally examined by analysing two computer simulated faults on a 130 kV transmission line.
Broadcasting with linearly bounded transmission faults
 We consider broadcasting with a linearly bounded number of transmission failures. For a constant parameter 0 < α < 1 we assume that at most αi faulty transmissions can occur during the first i time units of the communication process, for every natural number i. Every informed node can transmit information to at most one neighbor in a unit of time. Faulty transmissions have no effect. We investigate worst-case optimal non-adaptive broadcasting time under this fault model, for several communication networks. We show, e.g., that for the n-node line network this time is linear in n, if 1/2, and exponential otherwise. For the hypercube and the complete graph, broadcasting in the linearly bounded fault model can be performed in time logarithmic in the number of nodes.
Vibration transmission and energy dissipation through the gear-shaft-bearing-housing system subjected to impulse force on gear
 In this work, an eight-degree-of-freedom (DOF) dynamic model of the gear-shaft-bearing-housing system is established and the vertical vibration transmission and energy dissipation characteristics through the multiple transmitting interfaces under the impulse force due to gear fault are studied. The elastic deformations at the interfaces between gear and shaft, inner race and outer race, outer race and housing are formulated by the corresponding contact stiffness. The housing compliance is also included. A half-sine impulse force with two characteristic parameters as amplitude and time duration, which are associated with the defect type and size, is employed to represent the effect of gear fault on the system dynamics. The acceleration responses for different transmitting components as gear, inner race, outer race and housing are calculated for different impulse time duration, different impulse force amplitudes and shaft rotating speeds. The vibration transmission and energy dissipation through the multiple interfaces are characterized by the defined vibration transmission ratio and energy dissipation ratio. Obvious attenuation in acceleration magnitude is observed between the transmitting components from gear to housing. The maximum attenuation occurs at the transmission from inner race to outer race, while the minimum is between the outer race and the housing. The time duration of the impulse force determines the resonance and also the vibration transmission characteristics of the system. The energy dissipation increases nonlinearly with the amplitude of the applied impulse force. Results also suggest that the interface between inner race and outer race, and the interface between gear and shaft dissipated about 60% and 40% of the total energy, are the main sources of energy dissipation in the system. However, the shaft rotating speed has limited effect on the vertical impulse vibration amplitude, vibration transmission and energy dissipation. Experimental validation is performed, which supports the characteristics obtained from numerical results.
Fault Detection-Location in Robots Using a Scheme of Observers
 To implement fault tolerance techniques on robot architecture, a scheme of fault detection-location has been developped. This scheme corresponds to a combination of asymptotic, unknown inputs and dedicated observers which allow fault detection-location in robot structure by monitoring of corresponding residuals.
A cost-effective fault management system for distribution systems with distributed generators
 Fault Management System (FMS) is one of the main functions in Distribution Automation System (DAS); however, the conventional FMS cannot be used in distribution systems with Distributed Generators (DGs) due to the lack of directional function. The directional fault detection device is expensive due to the expensive directional module used. In a wide-ranging distribution system, the investment cost will be very high if the fault detecting devices are expensive. Therefore, the design and implementation of a cost-effective FMS for distribution system with DGs is necessary. A Multi-Level Fault-Current Indicator (MLFCI) having a plurality of reed switches used to detect different current levels is proposed in this paper. The hardware prototype is designed and implemented. An algorithm used to locate fault based on the different fault current levels is derived. A MLFCI-based FMS for distribution systems with DGs is then realized. Experimental results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed MLFCI. Simulation results are then used to demonstrate the validity of the proposed MLFCI-based FMS for distribution systems with DGs.
An adaptive algorithm to prevent distance relay overreach during CCVT transient
 In this paper, the impact of coupling capacitor voltage transformer (CCVT) subsidence transients on the performance of distance relay is investigated. The reach accuracy of distance relay is not maintained during CCVT subsidence transient and for this the responsible factors are system source-impedance-ratio (SIR), CCVT secondary burden, and fault inception angle. Relay generally overreaches during CCVT subsidence transient and in order to mitigate this problem an integrated adaptive logic is proposed. The adaptive zone-1 algorithm uses two criteria: (1) online SIR calculation using prefault and fault positive sequence voltage and current measured at relay location and (2) the maximum value of the transient monitor function obtained from the three-phase voltages to discriminate the in-zone fault from out-of-section fault. For accurate zone discrimination and to avoid relay overreach issue during end zone fault, the importance of adaptive threshold is crucial and can be set based on the online computed SIR value. The simulation study is performed using EMTDC/PSCAD. As the CCVT available in master library (ML) is not able to develop sufficient subsidence transient, a 500 kV, 60 Hz CCVT is modelled. Distance relay performance is analysed for different critical cases using the developed CCVT model and also the response of proposed method is observed. Results for different critical cases prove that the proposed method is able to maintain proper selectivity between in-zone and end-zone faults and also using the method the time-delay operation can be avoided during subsidence transient in the secondary side of CCVT
The broadband frequency characteristics of major equipment in the ±800 kV converter station and their influences to the short-circuit fault transient
 Due to the wide application of high-order resonant and nonlinear electric equipment in the UHVDC converter station, the electromagnetic transient process is a complex issue during the short-circuit fault transient of the system caused by lightning strike or other reasons. In this study, firstly, an operating ±800 kV DC line is artificially short-circuited to simulate the flashover fault process. The instantaneous voltages and currents and the electrical fields are measured by advanced sensors and high sampling rate recording devices at different points in the converter station, in order to comprehensively study the high-frequency characteristics of the UHVDC system. Then, the portal impedances of the major UHVDC equipment as well as the stray parameters are systematically measured in an actual ±800 kV station. Based on the data measured, the accurate high-frequency characteristics of the ±800 kV converter station are analyzed. The results of the study can be used to guide the EMC and relay protection designs of the UHVDC converter station, so that the stability of the system can be improved.
Phase selection and fault section identification in thyristor controlled series compensated line using discrete wavelet transform
 Discrete wavelet transform is used to analyze faulty signals for a transmission system employing a thyristor controlled series capacitor at the midpoint of a line. Different frequency components of current signals are considered to select the phase(s) involved with a fault. To identify the fault section the new approach utilizes the difference in high frequency components of the current signals. For both phase selection and section identification tasks new energy and standard deviation-based indices are also calculated for the transmission system.
Analysis and control of bridge-type fault current limiter integrated with the dynamic voltage restorer
 This paper proposes a novel bridge-type solid-state fault current limiter based on dynamic voltage restorer (BFCL-DVR). The new topology uses a DC-link in the back-to-back converter of DVR. The proposed BFCL-DVR is equivalent to the conventional DVR during normal operation mode. At fault inception, the controller deactivates the series converter IGBTs in faulty phase and activates the DC-link semiconductor switches, thus establishing an equivalent bridge-type current limiter to restrict the fault current. The magnitude of the fault current is adjustable by controlling the frequency and duty ratio of the semiconductor switch that is in parallel with the discharging resistance. Moreover, the device is able to quickly recover from the current limiting mode to the normal operation mode. In this study, the operation sequence, optimal value of discharging resistance, duty cycle, and frequency of semiconductor switches are obtained. The design methodology of the proposed BFCL-DVR is fully verified using PSCAD/EMTDC software. Experimental results validate the proposed topology and theoretical analysis.
A hybrid fault locator for three-terminal lines based on wavelet transforms
 This paper presents a hybrid fault location algorithm for three-terminal transmission lines based on wavelet transforms (WT). In this work, the WT were used to analyze the low and high frequency components of the current and/or voltage signals generated by an electric fault. A simple routine was used to determine which method should be used for each case. The methodology is called “hybrid” as it uses either traveling waves or impedance calculation methods to locate the fault. The traveling wave method analyses the current and/or voltage high frequency signals extracted by WT to determine the fault location. On the other hand, the fundamental frequency components of the voltage and current signals, also extracted by WT, can be used for the same purpose. The hybrid algorithm was tested for different fault conditions by simulations using alternative transients program (ATP) software. The results obtained are promising and demonstrate a highly satisfactory degree of accuracy and reliability of the proposed method.
Load-conscious maximization of base-station location privacy in wireless sensor networks
 In various applications of Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs), sensor nodes forward data packets towards an in-situ base-station (BS) over multi-hop routes. The BS not only collects and analyzes the incoming data, but also interfaces the WSN to a higher authority. The unique role of the BS attracts adversary's attention since it can be a single point of failure for the WSN. An adversary that seeks to diminish the network utility can apply traffic analysis techniques in order to uncover the sink of all traffic (i.e., the BS) and target it with denial of service attacks. In this paper, we present a technique for preserving location privacy of the BS. Our technique injects deceptive transmissions aiming to even the traffic density across the network and make the BS undistinguishable. We highlight the trade-off between location privacy and network's performance/lifetime, and show how our technique strikes a balance between conflicting metrics. The simulation results confirm that our proposed traffic analysis countermeasure effectively boosts the location privacy of the BS without a significant impact on the network's performance and lifetime.
Optimal transmission conversion from alternating current to high voltage direct current transmission systems for limiting short circuit currents
 The excess of short circuit currents (SCC) has threatened the security of electrical energy transmission and become one of the most critical problems in power grid operations. At present, high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission technology is a practical and applicable option to limit short circuit currents by separating a synchronous power grid into several asynchronous power grids. During the transmission expansion planning, the short circuit currents can be effectively limited by strategically converting alternating current to high voltage direct current transmission systems, improving transmission capacity as well. Due to the high construction cost of high voltage direct current transmission systems, improper conversion would influence the economy of power system planning and the effect of short circuit currents reduction. Therefore, an approach of optimal transmission conversion (OTC) for limiting short circuit currents is proposed in this paper. To solve the problem with the strong nonlinearity of short circuit currents, a novel linearization method based on direct current power flow is developed. The case study based on a 22-bus power system and IEEE 118-bus system are performed for illustration and validation. The simulation results demonstrate that the short circuit currents are effectively reduced and the security of electrical energy transmission is guaranteed by applying the proposed approach and model. The major contribution of this paper is to provide a new method for limiting short circuit currents. Hopefully, the proposed approach can provide new insights for the planning and operations of large-scale hybrid power systems.
Mobile local search with noisy locations
 The deep penetration of mobile devices have led to the emergence of multiple mobile applications that seek to harness the positioning capabilities embedded in such devices. One of the most functional of these applications is local search. Local search is similar to a regular web search, yet is more powerful in a mobile setting since results are ranked both by prominence and locality. Undoubtedly popular, the current design of local search applications fails to cater equally to a privacy-aware user who desires finer controls in her location disclosure. Towards this end, we propose the design for a private local search (PriLS) application that enables a user to first learn the geographic variation in local search results and then use it to determine a noisy location that has little or no affect on the search results. Parametric studies and real-world evaluations show that PriLS can help identify geographic locations that would produce similar search results (compared to when the user’s location is used) with no noticeable delays in user experience. They also reveal that large areas typically exist where there is no change in the result of a local search query, and can be exploited to provide spatial privacy guarantees to a user.
Fault detection in HVDC-connected wind farm with full converter generator
 In HVDC-connected wind farms with full converter generator (FCG) the short-circuit currents are mainly governed by the control systems of HVDC and wind generators’ converters. This peculiarity requires accurate studies for the design and evaluation of reliable fault detection methods. In line with this need three-phase faults analyses have been performed on a test-case system, using PSCAD/EMTDC, and protection strategies have been proposed and analyzed.
Simulative and experimental investigation of transfer function of inter-turn faults in transformer windings
 The transfer function (TF) method is a powerful tool to detect inter-turn faults. Correct interpretation of the TF variations is significant to distinguish the inter-turn faults from less urgency defects. This paper investigates transfer functions of inter-turn faults in transformer windings using simulative and experimental approach. An improved lumped circuit (ILC) model was developed to investigate the detailed energy transmission mode between adjacent turns. Actual experiments of inter-turn faults in different levels were carried out on a purpose-made winding by shorting the adjacent turns with different value resistors to verify the simulative results. Simulative and experimental results show the same characteristics of TF variations. The resonance frequency increases with rising transmission energy in shorting resistance. The amplitudes of resonance frequency vary in a U-shaped trend, which is determined by the energy consumed in the shorting resistance.
Instantaneous power factor signature analysis for efficient fault diagnosis in inverter fed three phased induction motors
 Majority of the electricity used in the industry is consumed by induction motors. Early detection of abnormal cases that occur at the electrical and mechanical parts of these motors is very important for the safe operation of industrial facilities and the decrease of economic losses. In this presented study, the detection of parallel, angular and mixed misalignment fault in inverter fed induction motors has been carried out via the harmonic analysis of the instantaneous power factor signal. Results obtained from experimental studies carried out under different speed and loads indicated that the detection of misalignment fault can be carried out successfully. The presented method can be used effectively without any additional cost since inverter fed motors have both voltage and current sensors. Also online monitoring of induction motors with the suggested method not only improves the motor's performance and longevity but also its efficiency. The main innovative parts of this study is that instantaneous power factor signal was used at the first time for detection of misalignment faults.
A method for the evaluation of fault current distribution in complex high voltage networks
 The paper presents a method for the study of large interconnected earthing systems in High Voltage networks. The mathematical model proposed for calculating the distribution of the Single-line-to-Earth fault current is useful for a methodical and accurate analysis of complex systems having meshed configuration and more sources, and has practical application for the Transmission System Operator. Two case studies are provided. The first one considers a fault occurring inside and outside a station in a real 220 kV transmission network. In the second example, the proposed methodology is compared with the classical “Double-sided elimination” method.
Data-based Fault Identification and Accommodation in the Control of Sampled-Data Particulate Processes
 This study deals with the problem of actuator fault identification and accommodation in particulate processes with discretely sampled measurements. The methodology involves reducing the infinite-dimensional system describing the particulate process to obtain a finite-dimensional model that captures the process dominant dynamics. A state feedback controller is designed based on the reduced-order model, and a zero-order hold, inter-sample model predictor is used to compensate for the discrete availability of measurements. The inter-sample model predictor is updated at each sampling time once the actual measurements become available. The location and magnitude of the actuator faults are estimated at each sampling time by solving a moving-horizon least-squares optimization problem online. The closed-loop stability properties of the sampled-data system are explicitly characterized in terms of the sampling period, the controller design parameters, and the actuator effectiveness (absence or extent of malfunction), which are subsequently used in the fault accommodation approach that maintains closed-loop stability after a fault occurs. The ability of the proposed methodology to identify and handle simultaneous and consecutive, as well as full and partial faults, are illustrated using a simulated model of a non-isothermal continuous crystallizer.
Differential energy based relaying for thyristor controlled series compensated line
 The paper presents a differential energy based protection scheme for transmission line including Thyristor Controlled Series Compensator (TCSC) using time–frequency transform such as S-transform. Initially the current at sending and receiving ends are retrieved and processed through the time–frequency transform such as S-transform to generate the time–frequency patterns (frequency contours). Spectral energy content of the frequency contours of both current signals are calculated and differential energy is computed to register the fault patterns in the transmission line. The tripping signal can be issued based on a set threshold, within two cycles from the fault inception, meeting the speed criteria of the digital relay. The results indicate that the differential energy based protection scheme can reliably detect the fault patterns in TCSC line including wide variations in operating conditions of the faulted power network.
Internal fault detection techniques for power transformers
 This paper presents the methodologies for incipient fault detection in power transformers both off-line and on-line. An artificial neural network is used to detect faults off-line with dissolved gas analysis reports of transformers and whereas wavelet transforms are being used for on-line fault detection. The accuracy in fault detection through artificial neural networks is compared with Rogers ratio method using the analysis of experimental oil samples for power transformers of power companies in Andhra Pradesh, India. The Wavelet transform techniques have been developed with different mother wavelets to detect incipient faults and to distinguish between incipient fault and short circuit fault. Further their performances with different mother wavelets are compared.
Mitigation of induced voltages and AC corrosion effects on buried gas pipeline near to OHTL under normal and fault conditions
 In this paper the induced voltages along the length of the buried gas pipeline, due to the inductive coupling and conductive coupling between this pipeline and the overhead transmission line (OHTL), are calculated under normal and fault conditions of the OHTL. Also, this paper deals with the mitigation of these induced voltages. Fault conditions of the OHTL include symmetric and un-symmetric faults. Where, ATP software is used to simulate the OHTL under all fault conditions. The obtained results from the ATP program are used to calculate the pipeline induced voltages under both normal and fault conditions. Mitigation system to minimize the impact of the OHTL on pipelines at normal and fault conditions is designed. Under normal condition, the pipeline induced voltages, after earthing system (mitigation system) was erected, are measured and compared with the calculated values. Also, pipeline coating discharging current and pipeline AC current density due to inductive coupling under normal operation and due to inductive and conductive coupling under single phase to ground fault condition of the OHTL, before and after erecting the mitigation system, are calculated and analyzed.
Characteristics of the fault-related rocks, fault zones and the principal slip zone in the Wenchuan Earthquake Fault Scientific Drilling Project Hole-1 (WFSD-1)
 Scientific drilling in active faults after a large earthquake is ideal to study earthquake mechanisms. The Wenchuan earthquake Fault Scientific Drilling project (WFSD) is an extremely rapid response to the 2008 Ms 8.0 Wenchuan earthquake, which happened along the Longmenshan fault, eastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau. In order to better understand the fault mechanism and the physical and chemical characteristics of the rocks, the WFSD project will eventually drill 5 boreholes along the two main faults. This paper focuses on the first hole (WFSD-1), which started just 178 days after the earthquake, down to a final depth of 1201.15 m. Petrological and structural analyses of the cores allowed the identification of fault-related rocks in the Yingxiu–Beichuan fault (fault gouge, cataclasite, and fault breccia), and the Principle Slip Zone (PSZ) location of the Wenchuan earthquake was determined. We found 12 fault zones in the entire core profile, with at least 10, including the Yingxiu–Beichuan fault zone, with a multiple cores structure and minimum width of ~ 100 m. The co-seismic slip plane of the Wenchuan earthquake at depth (corresponding to the Yingxiu–Beichuan fault zone at the outcrop), as well as its PSZ, was expected to be located at the bottom of the fault zone (at 759 m-depth). Instead, it was found at ~590 m-depth with 1 cm-wide fresh fault gouge, as determined by logging data such as temperature, natural gamma ray, p-wave velocity and resistivity, combined with the fresh appearance, magnetic susceptibility, and microstructure of the gouge. The Wenchuan earthquake slip plane has a dip angle of ~ 65°, showing the high-angle thrust feature. The distribution of fault gouge with several meters thick, the location of the Wenchuan earthquake's PSZ and the thickness of fresh gouge all imply a correlation between the width of the fault zone and the number of seismic events.
Study of protection scheme for transmission line based on wavelet transient energy
 Wavelet transient energy is proposed to be the criterion of protection for distinguishing internal or external fault on transmission line in this paper. The modal voltage and current are decomposed by Daubechies 4 wavelet in both time and frequency. The different decomposition coefficients on different scales reflecting different frequency information are used to calculate the transient characteristic of voltage and current. The transient characteristic is then utilized to obtain the transient energy of the fault that is employed to identify the fault position. Simulation results show that the proposed protection scheme based on transient energy is applicable and encouraging. It is independent of fault type, switching angle and generation mode; not influenced by recloser and lightning surge. Single-line ground fault with high fault resistance can also be detected correctly. The proposed protection scheme has good selectivity, reliability and sensitivity.
Determining secondary arc extinction time for single-pole auto-reclosing based on harmonic signatures
 In this paper, a new algorithm based on harmonic signatures is proposed to detect extinction of secondary arc for single-pole auto-reclosing (SPAR). In the proposed algorithm, the TT-transform is used to highlight harmonics of healthy phase voltages. The criterion for the detection of extinction of secondary arc is harmonics amplitudes, which is calculated after the TT-transform. The algorithm is noncommunication and the threshold value is adaptive; therefore, for various transmission systems no special adjustment is needed. To evaluate the accuracy of the proposed scheme, numerous simulations under different conditions including fault location, fault inception angle and line compensation are performed, in all of which the highest reliability is achieved.
A methodology to quantify the gas supply capacity of natural gas transmission pipeline system using reliability theory
 A methodology to quantify the gas supply capacity of a natural gas transmission pipeline system is developed in this paper. The methodology is based on reliability theory and hydraulic analysis of unsteady flow. Considering the state transition process and change law of the flow rate, two reliability indicators, gas supply satisfaction (Sa) and gas supply supportability (Su), are proposed to quantify the gas supply capacity. The methodology is first able to simulate the state transition process and the duration of each operating state based on Monte Carlo approach, and then the hydraulic analysis of unsteady flow after the system transits to others states is applied to analyze the change law of the actual flow rate through the commercial software SPS (Stoner Pipeline Simulator). By combining the hydraulic analysis into the simulation of state transition process, the two reliability indicators are calculated. A detailed procedure for gas supply capacity evaluation of a natural gas transmission pipeline system is presented, and its feasibility is confirmed with two case studies including a hypothesis and a real transmission pipeline system. Furthermore, impacts of the line pack, availability of the components and the number of stand-by units on the gas supply capacity are investigated.
Amplitude and frequency demodulation analysis for fault diagnosis of planet bearings
 The vibration signals of planet bearings feature more complex amplitude modulation and frequency modulation (AM-FM) than those of fixed-axis bearings, due to the effects of time-varying vibration transfer path, load zone passing and time-varying angles between gear pair mesh lines of action and impact force vector, in addition to that of bearing fault. Their Fourier spectra have a complex sideband structure, leading to difficulty in feature extraction and fault diagnosis. In order to address this issue, a joint amplitude and frequency demodulation analysis method is proposed to reveal the fault features, by considering the modulation characteristics. To thoroughly understand planet bearing vibration characteristics, the explicit equations for amplitude and frequency demodulated spectra of outer race, rolling element and inner race fault cases are derived, and the fault symptoms are summarized respectively. The signal is firstly decomposed into intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) by empirical mode decomposition (EMD), thus meeting the mono-component requirement by instantaneous frequency calculation. Then a sensitive component with the instantaneous frequency fluctuating around the resonance frequency is chosen for further frequency demodulation analysis. Finally, planet bearing fault can be diagnosed by matching the peaks identified in amplitude and frequency demodulated spectra with the theoretical fault characteristic frequencies. The proposed method is validated with both numerical simulated and lab experimental signal analyses.
Application of an improved maximum correlated kurtosis deconvolution method for fault diagnosis of rolling element bearings
 The extraction of periodic impulses, which are the important indicators of rolling bearing faults, from vibration signals is considerably significance for fault diagnosis. Maximum correlated kurtosis deconvolution (MCKD) developed from minimum entropy deconvolution (MED) has been proven as an efficient tool for enhancing the periodic impulses in the diagnosis of rolling element bearings and gearboxes. However, challenges still exist when MCKD is applied to the bearings operating under harsh working conditions. The difficulties mainly come from the rigorous requires for the multi-input parameters and the complicated resampling process. To overcome these limitations, an improved MCKD (IMCKD) is presented in this paper. The new method estimates the iterative period by calculating the autocorrelation of the envelope signal rather than relies on the provided prior period. Moreover, the iterative period will gradually approach to the true fault period through updating the iterative period after every iterative step. Since IMCKD is unaffected by the impulse signals with the high kurtosis value, the new method selects the maximum kurtosis filtered signal as the final choice from all candidates in the assigned iterative counts. Compared with MCKD, IMCKD has three advantages. First, without considering prior period and the choice of the order of shift, IMCKD is more efficient and has higher robustness. Second, the resampling process is not necessary for IMCKD, which is greatly convenient for the subsequent frequency spectrum analysis and envelope spectrum analysis without resetting the sampling rate. Third, IMCKD has a significant performance advantage in diagnosing the bearing compound-fault which expands the application range. Finally, the effectiveness and superiority of IMCKD are validated by a number of simulated bearing fault signals and applying to compound faults and single fault diagnosis of a locomotive bearing.
